---
title: ChessprogrammingGeneral disclaimer
---
The Chess Programming Wiki is carefully reviewed but cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here. The content of any given page may recently have been changed or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant field. While all contributors have been basically approved by the Chess Programming Wiki to edit so they can add content, correct errors or engage in casual peer review, they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Although we have taken optimum precautions to prevent any damage of information, any page may have been edited inappropriately, just before you view it.

The Chess Programming Wiki is not responsible for the conduct, whether online or offline, of any user of the website.

We take reasonable steps to protect the security and integrity of all personal information you provide to the website; however, due to the inherent nature of the Internet, we cannot guarantee that information, during transmission through the Internet or while stored on our system or otherwise in our care, will be absolutely safe from intrusion by others, such as hackers, despite our use of https.

We assume no liability for any error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, delay in operation or transmission, communications line failure, theft or destruction or unauthorized access to, or alteration of, any user posting. The Chess Programming Wiki is not responsible for any problems or technical malfunction of any telephone network or lines, computer online systems, servers or providers, computer equipment, software, failure of any email or players due to technical problems or traffic congestion on the Internet or on any of the website or combination thereof, including any injury or damage to users or to any person’s computer related to or resulting from participation in any activities on the website or downloading materials.

We make no warranties that the services will be timely, secure, uninterrupted, or error-free. You understand that if you download any material, you do so at your sole risk. Under no circumstances shall the Chess Programming Wiki be responsible for any loss or damage, including personal injury or death, resulting from use of the website, any content posted on or through the website, or conduct of any users of the website, whether online or offline. We can, whenever we want, edit or delete any content displayed on the website. You use the website at your own risk. We cannot guarantee and do not promise any specific results from use of the website.

The Chess Programming Wiki includes links to both internal and external websites. We are not responsible for the content of external websites. We select links that are editorially relevant to the content they are linking from and are suitable for the likely audience. These links are included for a number of reasons, including: for further relevant information or other key source material, for background information, for useful practical information, for entertainment or enjoyment and for further informed comment. We do not link to external sites in return for cash, services or any other consideration in kind, any link to sites is purely on editorial merit. These will most often be free to access, but users may sometimes be asked to register or subscribe before viewing content.

We reserve the right to terminate editing access to this website for anyone for any reason, including violation of these terms of service and/or any terms contained in the privacy policy.

