---
title: Endgame TablebasesDTZ50
---
**[Home](Home "Home") * [Knowledge](Knowledge "Knowledge") * Endgame Tablebases**

[](http://chgs.elevator.umn.edu/asset/viewAsset/57f3b6787d58ae5f74bf8ba9#57f3b6d77d58ae5574bf8bd8) [Samuel Bak](Category:Samuel_Bak "Category:Samuel Bak") - Persistence <a id="cite-note-1" href="#cite-ref-1">[1]</a>
**Endgame Tablebases**, (EGTBs or EGTs)

precalculated [endgame](Endgame "Endgame") [tables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Table_%28database%29) generated by an exhaustive [retrograde analysis](Retrograde_Analysis "Retrograde Analysis"). During its [game play](Chess_Game "Chess Game") and/or [search](Search "Search"), [recognizing](Interior_Node_Recognizer "Interior Node Recognizer") a specific [material composition](Material "Material"), a chess program can probe, or in principle compute these tables to determine the outcome of positions definitively and act as an [oracle](Oracle "Oracle") providing the optimal moves. The tables are usually divided into separate [files](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_file) for each material configuration and [side to move](Side_to_move "Side to move"). What all different [formats](Endgame_Tablebases#Formats "Endgame Tablebases") of tablebases have in common is that every possible piece placement has its own, unique index number which represents the position where the information about the position is located in the file. Positions with non-null castling rights could be represented in an EGTB but typically are not.

The term **Tablebase** opposed to endgame database was coined by [Steven Edwards](Steven_Edwards "Steven Edwards") by means of a data vector and a single file access for both sides to move, when he introduced his [Edwards' Tablebases](Edwards%27_Tablebases "Edwards' Tablebases"), addressing several shortcomings of [Ken Thompson's](Ken_Thompson "Ken Thompson") earlier [database](Thompson%27s_Databases "Thompson's Databases") of positions with the weaker and hence potentially losing side to move only <a id="cite-note-2" href="#cite-ref-2">[2]</a> .

## Purposes

When a [chess game](Chess_Game "Chess Game") goes to the [endgame](Endgame "Endgame") phase, it may complete soon with the result as a draw or a win/loss. Both human/chess engines can finish the endgame by continuing searching, applying some endgame rules. Even the game can finish in this way but it is not in a perfect way: it takes time to compute moves, may use more moves than necessary. Sometimes the winning side may lose the change since the rule 50 moves and/or making blunders. Both human and chess engines may miss badly the chances if they don’t know or not good enough about the endgame they are playing.

An EGTB can help to solve this period. It is a kind of a dictionary of all endgame positions which can answer immediately for a given position:

- If it is a draw or a win/loss
- How far/how many move from matting/being mated
- What is the best move

The main advantages of using EGTBs:

- Engines don’t have to search but retrieves data thus they can move instantly
- Moves are the perfect ones, leading the shortest line to win
- Engines don’t need to have the knowledge and code about those endgames

The main disadvantages of using EGTBs:

- Their data typically are too large for downloading and storing
- They may slow down the search
- Require complicated codes for probing

## Data

An EGTB is a set of endgames. Each endgame is a set of records about positions’ information. All involving positions in an endgame must have the same material. Typically each position's record associates with an integer number which informs how far that position is from mating/being mated or converting (depends on the type of its metrics).

Based on values of those integer numbers it can answer directly two questions of the EGTB: 1) for a given position it is a draw or a win/loss position and 2) how far it is from mating/being mated or converting. To answer the 3rd question, the best move of a position can be indirectly calculated: generate all legal moves, make them, probe all new positions, compare probing scores for the highest one and the associated move is the best one.

Theoretically, we can add more information to each position’s record. However, due to large numbers of involving positions, any additional information may make the whole EGTB becomes significantly larger. Thus so far none of popular EGTBs store any extra information and their records actually contain those integers only.

All records of an endgame are simply organized as two arrays (one array for one side/color). In other words, each item in those arrays is an integer and its index on an array is mapped to a unique position. For a given chess position, we will calculate its index then access its data record/integer via that index without searching.

## Endgame files

Those arrays of an endgame can be stored in files. Typically each array is stored in one file. However, sometimes they can be combined into one larger file or splitted into more files to easier copy or manage. Those files may be in compressed or uncompressed forms. If they are compressed, they are typically divided and compressed by small blocks thus they don't need to load and decompress all data to extract just a position.

## In memory

Some chess engines create themselves EGTBs on-flight and keep all data in memory without saving/loading to files. Due to limit by initial time they can generate and use very small EGTBs only.

## Sizes

The size of an endgame depends on:

- The number of involving pieces: more pieces, the bigger size
- Type of pieces: for standard chess, more Pawns is the smaller size
- Type of metric
- The largest value: the integer number should be large enough to cover the largest value. Different endgames will have different largest values. Thus some endgames need only one byte per item but some need 2 bytes
- Indexing: The algorithms to map between an array item and a position
- Compress ratio

So far the size of an EGTB is the most important factor of success.

## Metrics

## DTM

**Depth to Mate**
'Mate' is the ultimate goal and ends the game. For each position that is represented, 'DTM' indicates the theoretical value, and the number of winner's moves to 'Mate' if won/lost - assuming that the winner is minimizing and the loser is maximizing DTM.

## DTC

**Depth to Conversion**
'Conversion' is the changing of the force on the board, by capture and/or Pawn-conversion. For each position that is represented, 'DTC' indicates the theoretical value, and the number of winner's moves to the goal of 'Won Conversion' if won/lost - assuming that the winner is minimizing and the loser is maximizing DTC. DTC £ DTM.

## DTZ

**Depth to Zeroing (of the ply count)**
The ply-count is zeroed if and only if a Pawn is pushed or a capture is made. For each position that is represented, 'DTZ' indicates the theoretical value, and the number of winner's moves to the goal of 'Win and ply-count zeroed' if won/lost - assuming that the winner is minimizing and the loser is maximizing DTZ. DTZ £ DTC £ DTM.

## DTZ50

**Depth to Zeroing (of the ply count) in the context of the *50-Move* *Rule***
The DTC, DTM and DTZ metrics do not consider the current FIDE [50-move rule](Fifty-move_Rule "Fifty-move Rule") whereby a game in which no [irreversible moves](Irreversible_Moves "Irreversible Moves") have been played for 100 plies can be claimed as a draw by the player 'on move'. In this metric, in addition to the DTC/DTM/DTZ *draws*, positions requiring more than 50 winner's moves to zero the ply-count are defined as *draws*. DTZ £ DTZ50 if DTZ50 ¹ *draw.* 'DTZ50' is one of a set of 'DTZk' rules: a *k*-*move rule* effectively applies if there are only *k* moves left before a draw-claim might be made. *k1* £ *k2* implies *DTZk2* £ *DTZk1 if DTZk1* ¹ draw.

Note that, because depth is measured in winner's moves rather than plies, this metric does **not** define as *draw* a position in which 50 winner's moves and 51 loser's moves are required to zero the ply-count, despite the fact that the loser would claim a draw after 100 plies had been played in that endgame.

## DTR

**Depth by the (*k*-move) Rule**
'The Rule' referred to here is a notional set of *k*-move rules. For each position that is represented, 'DTR' indicates the theoretical value and, for won/lost positions\*,\* the least *k* for which DTZ*k* is not *draw* - assuming that the winner is minimising and the loser is maximising DTR. DTZ £ DTR. No DTR EGTs have been created to date <a id="cite-note-3" href="#cite-ref-3">[3]</a> .

## DTZR

**Depth to Zeroing move, give that DTR is being minimaxed**
If DTR = *draw*, then DTZR = *draw*. Otherwise, Otherwise DTRZR indicates the theoretical value, and the number of winner's moves to the zeroing of the ply count, given that the two sides are minimaxing first DTR and then DTZR. DTZR would be used in conjunction with DTR to progress a deep win in the context of a *k*-move rule because DTR can remain unchanged over a sequence of moves. DTZR £ DTR but it is not always the case that DTZ £ DTZR as may seem intuitively obvious: the loser may zero the move-count to maximise DTR.

## Summary

To summarize the different metrics of tablebases, each metric has its strengths and weaknesses. [Nalimov's DTM EGTs](Nalimov_Tablebases "Nalimov Tablebases") are widely and commercially available, and used by many chess engines or chess GUIs. DTC EGTs are more easily computed and stored as they involve smaller depth-ranges and are more compressible. For endgames with less or equal than 5 pieces on the board, KNNKP comes closest to requiring more than one [Byte](Byte "Byte") per position to store DTM: maxDTM = 115 (1-0) and 73 (0-1) necessitating 190 values in the EGT. For KPPKP, maxDTM = 127 (1-0) but only 42 (0-1). But for certain 6 piece endgames, one Byte is not enough: maxDTM = 262 for a KRNKNN position. The DTC and DTZ metrics increasingly postpone the need for two Bytes per position in an uncompressed EGT, but KRBNKQN has maxDTC = maxDTZ = 517 (0-1), both wtm and btm.

In extremis, he unmoderated use of DTM, DTC or DTZ EGTs will let slip a winnable position in the context of the 50-move rule ... hence the marginal need for the DTR and DTZR metrics, coupled with the ability to recompute DTR/DTZR EGTs in the context of a limited move-budget.

## Bitbases

*see main article [Endgame Bitbases](Endgame_Bitbases "Endgame Bitbases")*

Inside the [search](Search "Search") much denser tables with value {*won*, *draw*, *loss*, *invalid*} or boolean {*win*, *not_win*} information are sufficient with respect to [bounds](Bound "Bound"). Denser tables are more efficiently used, given that [memory](Memory "Memory") and cache are limited resources. Boolean *Win/Not_Win* Bitbases require only one bit per position (and if necessary, further enquiry if *draw* is to be distinguished from *loss* with respect to [bounds](Bound "Bound")). *Value* Bitbases require two bits per position.

## Indexing

Every position is assigned to a unique index to specify the location of the information stored about it. The main purpose of indexing is to locate and read information (from databases) such as distance to mate for a given position based on its index.

There are two main aims when generating the index number. The easier the algorithm to generate the index from any given position, the faster will be the probing of the tablebase as well as the generation of it. But the second aim is to get a relatively small range of index-numbers, to keep the size of the file as small as possible.

The most straight forward way would be to for every piece on the board use 6 bit (1-64 squares)

```C++

index = position_white_King + position_black_King * 64

for each piece {
    index = index * 64 + position
}

```

Almost all work on this field is to reduce index spaces and reduce data sizes (e.g., by compressing). The above indexing can be optimised in several ways.

Remove redundant symmetrical indexes:

- A chess board can be rotated and mirrored (if pawns are on the board only a vertical reflection is possible).
- For pieces of the same type, different arrangements can be left away.

Remove illegal indexes:

- Pieces may not stand on the same square.
- The side to move may not give check.
- The distance between the two Kings must be greater than one.

## Retrieving

## Probe

When a chess program (e.g., a chess engine or a chess GUI) works with an EGTB, it needs to retrieve data (integer numbers) for some given chess positions. The process named probe and has below steps:

- convert a given chess position into an index via indexing algorithms
- access data (typically organised as arrays of integers) using the index to retrieve the integer of that chess position

If data of that endgame is not ready in memory, usually the probe process has to do some extra work:

- From data index calculate the block index
- Read data of that block from storage into memory
- Uncompress the block data (if it is compressed)
- Convert the endgame index into block index and retrieve the needed data

## Search

After probing the chess engine may have the result as an integer number for the queried position. Depending on the metric, the number may be a distance to mate or distance to conversion, the position is a draw or a win or loss for the querying side. Sometimes that value (state of draw/win/loss) may be enough for searching. However, sometimes that state is not enough and it needs to know which is the best move to make. The solution is to generate all legal moves from that position, make one by one, probe that EGTB for values of each new position. After all, compare the values of all children's positions to find which one is the best to make.

## Speed

Typically the probe process requires some computing and it may access storage and decompress which is usually so slow. An engine that probes EGTB when searching may make the whole search be slower. Sometimes the benefit from probing EGTBs maybe not enough to cover the loss of slower search. That’s why the probing should be planned and implemented carefully. EGTB files may have to store in fast storage and/or using some huge systems’ caches. The good point is that the engine can stop searching on the branch probed the EGTB.

## Brief Info

of some popular Endgame tablebases:

|  Format
|  Metric
|  1st published
|  5 men
|  6 men
|  7 men
|
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [Thompson](Thompson%27s_Databases "Thompson's Databases") | [DTC](Endgame_Tablebases#DTC "Endgame Tablebases") |  1991
|  2.5 [GiB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gibibyte) (not completed)
|  -
|  -
|
| [Edwards](Edwards%27_Tablebases "Edwards' Tablebases") | [DTM](Endgame_Tablebases#DTM "Endgame Tablebases") |  1994
|  56 GiB (estimated)
|  -
|  -
|
| [Nalimov](Nalimov_Tablebases "Nalimov Tablebases") |  DTM
|  1998
|  7.1 GiB
|  1.2 [TiB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tebibyte) |  -
|
| [Scorpio](Scorpio_Bitbases "Scorpio Bitbases") | [WDL](Endgame_Tablebases#Bitbases "Endgame Tablebases") |  2005
|  214 [MiB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mebibyte) |  48.1 GiB
|  -
|
| [Gaviota](Gaviota_Tablebases "Gaviota Tablebases") |  DTM
|  2008
|  6.5 GiB
|  -
|  -
|
| [Lomonosov](Lomonosov_Tablebases "Lomonosov Tablebases") |  DTM
|  2012
|  -
|  -
|  140 TiB
|
| [Syzygy](Syzygy_Bases "Syzygy Bases") |  WDL + [DTZ50](Endgame_Tablebases#DTZ50 "Endgame Tablebases") |  2013 / 2018
|  939 MiB
|  150.2 [GB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gigabyte) |  17 [TB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terabyte) |

## Formats

- [Chenard's EGDB](Chenard#EGDB "Chenard")
- [Edwards' Tablebases](Edwards%27_Tablebases "Edwards' Tablebases")
- [Gaviota Tablebases](Gaviota_Tablebases "Gaviota Tablebases")
- [Lomonosov Tablebases](Lomonosov_Tablebases "Lomonosov Tablebases")
- [Nalimov Tablebases](Nalimov_Tablebases "Nalimov Tablebases")
- [Scorpio Bitbases](Scorpio_Bitbases "Scorpio Bitbases")
- [Syzygy Bases](Syzygy_Bases "Syzygy Bases")
- [Thompson's Databases](Thompson%27s_Databases "Thompson's Databases")

## Generators

- [FinalGen](FinalGen "FinalGen")
- [Freezer](Freezer "Freezer")
- [GAFS](GAFS "GAFS")
- [Retro](index.php?title=Retro&action=edit&redlink=1 "Retro (page does not exist)")

## 7-man EGTBs

## 2005

In 2005, [Yakov Konoval](Yakov_Konoval "Yakov Konoval") started to collaborate with [Marc Bourzutschky](Marc_Bourzutschky "Marc Bourzutschky") on constructing 7-man EGTBs. Yakov wrote the generator and Marc a verification program and some utilities for extracting the data. In October 2005, Yakov Konoval and Marc Bourzutschky announced that a position in the ending of a KRRNkrr requires 290 moves to convert to a simpler winning endgame <a id="cite-note-4" href="#cite-ref-4">[4]</a> . The old record was 243 moves from a position in a rook and knight versus two knights endgame, discovered by [Lewis Stiller](Lewis_Stiller "Lewis Stiller") in 1991 <a id="cite-note-5" href="#cite-ref-5">[5]</a> .

## 2006

In March 2006, the wizards of 7-men endgames, Marc Bourzutschky and Yakov Konoval found a 330 moves win in KQBNkqb <a id="cite-note-6" href="#cite-ref-6">[6]</a> and in May 2006 a 517 moves win in KQNkrbn <a id="cite-note-7" href="#cite-ref-7">[7]</a> .

## 2012

In July 2012, [Vladimir Makhnychev](Vladimir_Makhnychev "Vladimir Makhnychev") and [Victor Zakharov](Victor_Zakharov "Victor Zakharov") from [Moscow State University](Moscow_State_University "Moscow State University") completed 4+3 DTM-tablebases (525 endings including KPPPKPP). The next set of 5+2 DTM-tablebases was completed during August 2012 <a id="cite-note-8" href="#cite-ref-8">[8]</a> . The tablebases are named [Lomonosov Tablebases](Lomonosov_Tablebases "Lomonosov Tablebases"), using the [Lomonosov Supercomputer](Lomonosov_Supercomputer "Lomonosov Supercomputer").

## 2013

[Convekta Ltd.](ChessOK "ChessOK") announced the release of [Lomonosov Tablebases](Lomonosov_Tablebases "Lomonosov Tablebases"). Until December 31, 2013, the tablebases will be available online through [ChessOK](ChessOK "ChessOK") [products](ChessOK#Products "ChessOK") <a id="cite-note-9" href="#cite-ref-9">[9]</a>.

## 2018

Starting in March 2018, **seven piece** [Syzygy Bases](Syzygy_Bases "Syzygy Bases"), originally created for up to six pieces by [Ronald de Man](Ronald_de_Man "Ronald de Man") in 2013, were generated by [Bojun Guo](Bojun_Guo "Bojun Guo"), finished in August 2018 <a id="cite-note-10" href="#cite-ref-10">[10]</a>.

## See also

- [Retrograde Analysis](Retrograde_Analysis "Retrograde Analysis")
- [Endgame](Endgame "Endgame")
- [Interior Node Recognizer](Interior_Node_Recognizer "Interior Node Recognizer")
- [KPK](KPK "KPK")
- [Oracle](Oracle "Oracle")

## Selected Publications

## 1965 ...

- [Richard E. Bellman](Richard_E._Bellman "Richard E. Bellman") (**1965**). *[On the application of dynamic programming to the determination of optimal play in chess and checkers](http://www.rand.org/pubs/papers/P3013/).* Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. [pdf](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC219499/pdf/pnas00154-0020.pdf)

## 1970 ...

- [Thomas Ströhlein](Thomas_Str%C3%B6hlein "Thomas Ströhlein") (**1970**). *Untersuchungen über kombinatorische Spiele.* Ph.D. Thesis, [Technical University of Munich](Technical_University_of_Munich "Technical University of Munich") (German)
- [Edward Komissarchik](Edward_Komissarchik "Edward Komissarchik"), [Aaron L. Futer](Aaron_L._Futer "Aaron L. Futer") (**1974**). *Ob Analize Ferzevogo Endshpilya pri Pomoshchi EVM.* (Analysis of a queen endgame using an IBM computer) Problemy Kybernetiki, Vol. 29, pp. 211-220. English translation by [C. Posthoff](Christian_Posthoff "Christian Posthoff"), revised in [ICCA Journal, Vol. 9, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#9_4 "ICGA Journal") (**1986**)

## 1975 ...

- [Mike Clarke](Mike_Clarke "Mike Clarke") (**1977**). *A quantitative study of KPK*. [Advances in Computer Chess 1](Advances_in_Computer_Chess_1 "Advances in Computer Chess 1"), pp. 108-118
- [A. G. Alexandrov](http://www.mathnet.ru/php/person.phtml?option_lang=eng&personid=55935), [A. M. Baraev](http://www.mathnet.ru/php/person.phtml?option_lang=eng&personid=96113), [Ya. Yu. Gol'fand](http://www.mathnet.ru/php/person.phtml?option_lang=eng&personid=96114), [Edward Komissarchik](Edward_Komissarchik "Edward Komissarchik"), [Aaron L. Futer](Aaron_L._Futer "Aaron L. Futer") (**1977**). *[Computer analysis of rook end game](http://www.mathnet.ru/php/archive.phtml?wshow=paper&jrnid=at&paperid=7425&option_lang=eng)*. [Avtomatika i Telemekhanika](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automation_and_Remote_Control), No. 8, 113–117
- [A. G. Alexandrov](http://www.mathnet.ru/php/person.phtml?option_lang=eng&personid=55935), [Vladimir Arlazarov](Vladimir_Arlazarov "Vladimir Arlazarov"), [A. M. Baraev](http://www.mathnet.ru/php/person.phtml?option_lang=eng&personid=96113), [Ya. Yu. Gol'fand](http://www.mathnet.ru/php/person.phtml?option_lang=eng&personid=96114), [V. N. Deza](https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:deza.v-n), [T. P. Il’ina](https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:ilina.t-p), [Edward Komissarchik](Edward_Komissarchik "Edward Komissarchik"), [Anatoly Uskov](Anatoly_Uskov "Anatoly Uskov"), [I. A. Faradzhev](https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:faradzhev.i-a), [Aaron L. Futer](Aaron_L._Futer "Aaron L. Futer") (**1977**). *[Processing of large files of information on the example of the analysis of the rook’s end game](https://zbmath.org/?q=an:03653550)*. [Programming and Computer Software](http://www.springer.com/computer/journal/11086), No. 3
- [Thomas Ströhlein](Thomas_Str%C3%B6hlein "Thomas Ströhlein"), [Ludwig Zagler](Ludwig_Zagler "Ludwig Zagler") (**1977**). *[Analyzing games by Boolean matrix iteration](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0012365X77900334)*. [Discrete Mathematics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discrete_Mathematics_%28journal%29), Vol. 19, No. 2
- [Thomas Ströhlein](Thomas_Str%C3%B6hlein "Thomas Ströhlein"), [Ludwig Zagler](Ludwig_Zagler "Ludwig Zagler") (**1978**). *Ergebnisse einer vollstandigen Analyse von Schachendspielen: König und Turm gegen König, König und Turm gegen König und Laufer.* Report, Institut für Informatik, [Technical University of Munich](Technical_University_of_Munich "Technical University of Munich") (German)
- [Max Bramer](Max_Bramer "Max Bramer") (**1978**). *Computer-Generated Databases for the Endgame in Chess.* Technical Report. [Milton Keynes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milton_Keynes), [Open University](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_University) Faculty of Mathematics.
- [Aaron L. Futer](Aaron_L._Futer "Aaron L. Futer") (**1978**). *[Programming endgames with few pieces](https://zbmath.org/?q=an:03637634)*. [Soviet Physics. Doklady](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doklady_Physics), No. 23
- [Vladimir Arlazarov](Vladimir_Arlazarov "Vladimir Arlazarov"), [Aaron L. Futer](Aaron_L._Futer "Aaron L. Futer") (**1979**). *Computer Analysis of a Rook End-Game*. [Machine Intelligence 9](http://www.doc.ic.ac.uk/~shm/MI/mi9.html) (eds. [Jean Hayes Michie](Jean_Hayes_Michie "Jean Hayes Michie"), [Donald Michie](Donald_Michie "Donald Michie") and L.I. Mikulich), pp. 361-371. Ellis Horwood, Chichester. Reprinted in [Computer Chess Compendium](Computer_Chess_Compendium "Computer Chess Compendium")
- [Max Bramer](Max_Bramer "Max Bramer"), [Mike Clarke](Mike_Clarke "Mike Clarke") (**1979**). *[A Model for the Representation of Pattern-Knowledge for the Endgame in Chess](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020737379800139)*. [International Journal of Man-Machine Studies, Vol. 11, No.5](http://www.interaction-design.org/references/periodicals/international_journal_of_man-machine_studies_volume_11.html)

## 1985 ...

- [Jaap van den Herik](Jaap_van_den_Herik "Jaap van den Herik"), [Bob Herschberg](Bob_Herschberg "Bob Herschberg") (**1985**). *The Construction of an Omniscient Endgame Data Base*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 8, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#8_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [John Roycroft](John_Roycroft "John Roycroft") (**1985**). *Chess-Endgame Data-Base\`Oracles': Necessary and Desirable Features*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 8, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#8_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [Harry Nefkens](Harry_Nefkens "Harry Nefkens") (**1985**). *Constructing Data Bases to Fit a Microcomputer*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 8, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#8_4 "ICGA Journal")

**1986**

- [Jaap van den Herik](Jaap_van_den_Herik "Jaap van den Herik"), [Bob Herschberg](Bob_Herschberg "Bob Herschberg") (**1986**). *A Data Base on Data Bases*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 9, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#9_1 "ICGA Journal")
- [John Roycroft](John_Roycroft "John Roycroft"), [Ken Thompson](Ken_Thompson "Ken Thompson") (**1986**). *Queen and Pawn on a2 against Queen*. Chess Endgame Consultants and Publishers, London
- [John Roycroft](John_Roycroft "John Roycroft"), [Ken Thompson](Ken_Thompson "Ken Thompson") (**1986**). *Queen and Pawn on a6 against Queen*. Chess Endgame Consultants and Publishers, London
- [John Roycroft](John_Roycroft "John Roycroft"), [Ken Thompson](Ken_Thompson "Ken Thompson") (**1986**). *Queen and Pawn on b7 against Queen*. Chess Endgame Consultants and Publishers, London
- [Jaap van den Herik](Jaap_van_den_Herik "Jaap van den Herik") (**1986**). *Roycroft's 5-Man Chess Endgame Series*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 9, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#9_3 "ICGA Journal")
- [Ken Thompson](Ken_Thompson "Ken Thompson") (**1986**). *Retrograde Analysis of Certain Endgames*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 9, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#9_3 "ICGA Journal"), [pdf](http://pdos.csail.mit.edu/~rsc/thompson86endgame.pdf)
- [Edward Komissarchik](Edward_Komissarchik "Edward Komissarchik"), [Aaron L. Futer](Aaron_L._Futer "Aaron L. Futer") (**1986**). *Computer Analysis of a Queen Endgame*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 9, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#9_4 "ICGA Journal") <a id="cite-note-11" href="#cite-ref-11">[11]</a>
- [Ken Thompson](Ken_Thompson "Ken Thompson") (**1986**). *An Example of QPvQ*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 9, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#9_4 "ICGA Journal")
- [Hans Zellner](Hans_Zellner "Hans Zellner") (**1986**). *Compressing Databases Down to Micro Size*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 9, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#9_4 "ICGA Journal")

**1987**

- [Hans Zellner](Hans_Zellner "Hans Zellner") (**1987**). *KBBK Squeezed into a Micro*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 10, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#10_1 "ICGA Journal")
- [Jaap van den Herik](Jaap_van_den_Herik "Jaap van den Herik"), [Bob Herschberg](Bob_Herschberg "Bob Herschberg") (**1987**). *The KBBKN Statistics: New Data from Ken Thompson*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 10, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#10_1 "ICGA Journal")
- [Bob Herschberg](Bob_Herschberg "Bob Herschberg"), [Jaap van den Herik](Jaap_van_den_Herik "Jaap van den Herik") (**1987**). *More Truth on KBBK Database Results*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 10, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#10_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [Hans Zellner](Hans_Zellner "Hans Zellner"), [Jaap van den Herik](Jaap_van_den_Herik "Jaap van den Herik"), [Bob Herschberg](Bob_Herschberg "Bob Herschberg") (**1987**). *Corrections and Substantiations to KBNK*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 10, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#10_3 "ICGA Journal")
- [Sito Dekker](Sito_Dekker "Sito Dekker"), [Jaap van den Herik](Jaap_van_den_Herik "Jaap van den Herik"), [Bob Herschberg](Bob_Herschberg "Bob Herschberg") (**1987**). *Complexity Starts at Five.* [ICCA Journal, Vol. 10, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#10_3 "ICGA Journal")
- [Lars Rasmussen](Lars_Rasmussen "Lars Rasmussen") (**1987**). *Correcting grandmasters' Analyses in Elementary Endgames*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 10, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#10_4 "ICGA Journal")
- [Jaap van den Herik](Jaap_van_den_Herik "Jaap van den Herik"), [Bob Herschberg](Bob_Herschberg "Bob Herschberg"), [Najib Nakad](index.php?title=Najib_Nakad&action=edit&redlink=1 "Najib Nakad (page does not exist)") (**1987**). *A Six-Men-Endgame Database: KRP(a2)KbBP(a3)*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 10, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#10_4 "ICGA Journal"), [pdf](http://arno.uvt.nl/show.cgi?fid=106791)
- [Sito Dekker](Sito_Dekker "Sito Dekker"), [Jaap van den Herik](Jaap_van_den_Herik "Jaap van den Herik"), [Bob Herschberg](Bob_Herschberg "Bob Herschberg") (**1987**). *Perfect Knowledge and Beyond*. Report 37-87, [Delft University of Technology](Delft_University_of_Technology "Delft University of Technology"), Delft.
- [John Roycroft](John_Roycroft "John Roycroft") (**1987**). *Expert Against Oracle*. [Machine Intelligence 11](http://www.doc.ic.ac.uk/~shm/MI/mi11.html)

**1988**

- [Jaap van den Herik](Jaap_van_den_Herik "Jaap van den Herik"), [Bob Herschberg](Bob_Herschberg "Bob Herschberg") (**1988**). *Computer Checks on Human Analyses of the KRKB Endgame*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 11, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#11_1 "ICGA Journal")
- [Lars Rasmussen](Lars_Rasmussen "Lars Rasmussen") (**1988**). *Ultimates in KQKR and KRKN*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 11, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#11_1 "ICGA Journal")
- [Lewis Stiller](Lewis_Stiller "Lewis Stiller") (**1988**). *Massively Parallel Retrograde Endgame Analysis*. BUCS Tech. Report #88-014, Boston University, Computer Science Department.
- [Jaap van den Herik](Jaap_van_den_Herik "Jaap van den Herik"), [Bob Herschberg](Bob_Herschberg "Bob Herschberg"), [Najib Nakad](index.php?title=Najib_Nakad&action=edit&redlink=1 "Najib Nakad (page does not exist)") (**1988**). *A Reply to R. Sattler's Remarks on the KRP(a2)KbBP(a3) Database*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 11, No. 2/3](ICGA_Journal#11_23 "ICGA Journal"), [pdf](http://arno.uvt.nl/show.cgi?fid=106798)
- [Lars Rasmussen](Lars_Rasmussen "Lars Rasmussen") (**1988**). *A Database for KRKP*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 11, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#11_4 "ICGA Journal")

**1989**

- [Christopher A. Marris](index.php?title=Christopher_A._Marris&action=edit&redlink=1 "Christopher A. Marris (page does not exist)") (**1989**). *Compressing a Chess-Endgame Database*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 12, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#12_1 "ICGA Journal")
- [David Forthoffer](David_Forthoffer "David Forthoffer"), [Lars Rasmussen](Lars_Rasmussen "Lars Rasmussen"), [Sito Dekker](Sito_Dekker "Sito Dekker") (**1989**). *A Correction to some KRKB-Database Results*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 12, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#12_1 "ICGA Journal")
- [Edmar Mednis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edmar_Mednis) (**1989**). *Rook and Bishop versus Rook: The Controversial Endgame*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 12, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#12_1 "ICGA Journal")
- [Lewis Stiller](Lewis_Stiller "Lewis Stiller") (**1989**). *Parallel Analysis of Certain Endgames*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 12, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#12_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [Hans Zellner](Hans_Zellner "Hans Zellner") (**1989**). *The KPK Database Revisited*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 12, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#12_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [Sito Dekker](Sito_Dekker "Sito Dekker"), [Jaap van den Herik](Jaap_van_den_Herik "Jaap van den Herik"), [Bob Herschberg](Bob_Herschberg "Bob Herschberg") (**1989**). *Perfect Knowledge and Beyond*. [Advances in Computer Chess 5](Advances_in_Computer_Chess_5 "Advances in Computer Chess 5")
- [Bob Herschberg](Bob_Herschberg "Bob Herschberg"), [Jaap van den Herik](Jaap_van_den_Herik "Jaap van den Herik"), [Patrick Schoo](index.php?title=Patrick_Schoo&action=edit&redlink=1 "Patrick Schoo (page does not exist)") (**1989**). *Verifying and Codifying Strategies in the KNNKP(h) Endgame*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 12, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#12_3 "ICGA Journal"), [pdf](http://arno.uvt.nl/show.cgi?fid=106804)
- [Hans Zellner](Hans_Zellner "Hans Zellner") (**1989**). *KBBKN on a Micro*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 12, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#12_3 "ICGA Journal")
- [John Roycroft](John_Roycroft "John Roycroft") (**1989**). *The Computer is at it again - Interfering with the Endgame!* [Britisch Chess Magazine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/British_Chess_Magazine), Vol. 109, No. 10

## 1990 ...

- [Bob Herschberg](Bob_Herschberg "Bob Herschberg"), [Jaap van den Herik](Jaap_van_den_Herik "Jaap van den Herik"), [Patrick Schoo](index.php?title=Patrick_Schoo&action=edit&redlink=1 "Patrick Schoo (page does not exist)") (**1990**). *Verifying and Codifying Strategies in a Chess Endgame*. [Computers, Chess, and Cognition](Computers,_Chess,_and_Cognition "Computers, Chess, and Cognition"), pp. 183-196
- [John Roycroft](John_Roycroft "John Roycroft") (**1990**). *How to Treat Endgame Databases.* [ICCA Journal, Vol. 13, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#13_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [Ken Thompson](Ken_Thompson "Ken Thompson") (**1990**). *KQPKQ and KRPKR Endings*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 13, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#13_4 "ICGA Journal")
- [John Roycroft](John_Roycroft "John Roycroft") (**1990**). *Identifying Three Types of Zugzwang*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 13, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#13_4 "ICGA Journal") » [Zugzwang](Zugzwang "Zugzwang")

**1991**

- [Ken Thompson](Ken_Thompson "Ken Thompson") (**1991**). *Chess Endgames Vol. 1.* [ICCA Journal, Vol. 14, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#14_1 "ICGA Journal")
- [Ken Thompson](Ken_Thompson "Ken Thompson") (**1991**). *New Results for KNPKB and KNPKN Endgames*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 14, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#14_1 "ICGA Journal")
- [Edmar Mednis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edmar_Mednis) (**1991**). *Database Results for KQKRN and KQKRB annotated*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 14, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#14_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [John Roycroft](John_Roycroft "John Roycroft") (**1991**). *A Postscript to the Computer's Involvement*. [Britisch Chess Magazine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/British_Chess_Magazine), Vol. 111, No. 2
- [Lewis Stiller](Lewis_Stiller "Lewis Stiller") (**1991**). *Some Results from a Massively Parallel Retrograde Analysis.* [ICCA Journal, Vol. 14, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#14_3 "ICGA Journal")
- [John Roycroft](John_Roycroft "John Roycroft") (**1991**). *A Side-Effect of new Database Knowledge*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 14, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#14_3 "ICGA Journal")
- [John Roycroft](John_Roycroft "John Roycroft") (**1991**). *A Use for Endgame Databases?* [ICCA Journal, Vol. 14, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#14_4 "ICGA Journal")
- [John Roycroft](John_Roycroft "John Roycroft"), [Don Beal](Don_Beal "Don Beal") (**1991**). *To Make Dumb Endgame Databases Speak*. [Advances in Computer Chess 6](Advances_in_Computer_Chess_6 "Advances in Computer Chess 6")

**1992**

- [Lewis Stiller](Lewis_Stiller "Lewis Stiller") (**1992**). *KQNKRR*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 15, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#15_1 "ICGA Journal")
- [John Nunn](John_Nunn "John Nunn") (**1992**). *Perfect Prose*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 15, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#15_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [Lars Rasmussen](Lars_Rasmussen "Lars Rasmussen") (**1992**). *Queen versus Rook and Pawn*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 15, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#15_2 "ICGA Journal")

**1993**

- [Burton Wendroff](Burton_Wendroff "Burton Wendroff"), [Tony Warnock](Tony_Warnock "Tony Warnock"), [Lewis Stiller](Lewis_Stiller "Lewis Stiller"), [Dean Mayer](index.php?title=Dean_Mayer&action=edit&redlink=1 "Dean Mayer (page does not exist)"), [Ralph Brickner](index.php?title=Ralph_Brickner&action=edit&redlink=1 "Ralph Brickner (page does not exist)") (**1993**). *Bits and pieces: constructing chess endgame databases on parallel and vector architectures*. Appl. Num. Math. 12, pp. 285-295, [zipped ps](http://math.unm.edu/%7Ebbw/endgame.ps.gz)
- [Christian Posthoff](Christian_Posthoff "Christian Posthoff"), [Michael Schlosser](Michael_Schlosser "Michael Schlosser"), [Jens Zeidler](Jens_Zeidler "Jens Zeidler") (**1993**). *Search vs. Knowledge? - Search and Knowledge!* In: Proc. 3rd KADS Meeting, Munich, March 8-9 1993, Siemens AG, Corporate Research and Development, 305-326, 1993.
- [John Nunn](John_Nunn "John Nunn") (**1993**). *Extracting Information from Endgame Databases*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 16, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#16_4 "ICGA Journal")

**1994**

- [Ingo Althöfer](Ingo_Alth%C3%B6fer "Ingo Althöfer"), [Bernhard Walter](index.php?title=Bernhard_Walter&action=edit&redlink=1 "Bernhard Walter (page does not exist)") (**1994**). *Weak Zugzwang: Statistics on some Chess Endgames*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 17, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#17_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [John Nunn](John_Nunn "John Nunn") (**1994**). *More, and More Perfect Prose*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 17, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#17_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [John Nunn](John_Nunn "John Nunn") (**1994**). *Extracting Information from Endgame Databases*. [Advances in Computer Chess 7](Advances_in_Computer_Chess_7 "Advances in Computer Chess 7")
- [Christian Posthoff](Christian_Posthoff "Christian Posthoff"), [Michael Schlosser](Michael_Schlosser "Michael Schlosser"), [Rainer Staudte](Rainer_Staudte "Rainer Staudte"), [Jens Zeidler](Jens_Zeidler "Jens Zeidler") (**1994**). *Transformations of Knowledge*. [Advances in Computer Chess 7](Advances_in_Computer_Chess_7 "Advances in Computer Chess 7")
- [Grit Lachmann](Grit_Lachmann "Grit Lachmann") (**1994**). *Verarbeitung von Wissen aus Endspieldatenbanken*. Master's thesis, [Chemnitz University of Technology](Chemnitz_University_of_Technology "Chemnitz University of Technology") (German)

## 1995 ...

- [Steven Edwards](Steven_Edwards "Steven Edwards") and the Editorial Board (**1995**). *An Examination of the Endgame KBNKN*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 18, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#18_3 "ICGA Journal")
- [Henri Bal](Henri_Bal "Henri Bal"), [Victor Allis](Victor_Allis "Victor Allis") (**1995**). *Parallel Retrograde Analysis on a Distributed System*. Supercomputing ’95, San Diego, CA.

**1996**

- [Dietmar Lippold](index.php?title=Dietmar_Lippold&action=edit&redlink=1 "Dietmar Lippold (page does not exist)") (**1996**). *Legality of Positions of Simple Chess Endgames*. [zipped pdf](http://digilander.libero.it/gargamellachess/papers/legality%20of%20positions.zip) <a id="cite-note-12" href="#cite-ref-12">[12]</a>
- [Ken Thompson](Ken_Thompson "Ken Thompson") (**1996**). *6-Piece Endgames*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 19, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#19_4 "ICGA Journal")
- [Lewis Stiller](Lewis_Stiller "Lewis Stiller") (**1996**). *Multilinear Algebra and Chess Endgames*. [Games of No Chance](http://library.msri.org/books/Book29/index.html) edited by [Richard J. Nowakowski](Richard_J._Nowakowski "Richard J. Nowakowski"), [pdf](http://www.msri.org/publications/books/Book29/files/stiller.pdf)

**1997**

- [Dietmar Lippold](index.php?title=Dietmar_Lippold&action=edit&redlink=1 "Dietmar Lippold (page does not exist)") (**1997**). *The Legitimacy of Positions in Endgame Databases*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 20, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#20_1 "ICGA Journal")
- [Ken Thompson](Ken_Thompson "Ken Thompson") (**1997**). *6-Piece Endgames*. [Advances in Computer Chess 8](Advances_in_Computer_Chess_8 "Advances in Computer Chess 8")
- [Johannes Fürnkranz](Johannes_F%C3%BCrnkranz "Johannes Fürnkranz") (**1997**). *Knowledge Discovery in Chess Databases: A Research Proposal.* Technical Report OEFAI-TR-97-33, Austrian Research Institute for Artificial Intelligence, [zipped ps](http://www.ke.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/%7Ejuffi/publications/chess-ws.ps.gz), [pdf](http://www.top-5000.nl/ps/Knowledge%20discovery%20in%20chess%20databases%20-%20a%20research%20proposal.pdf) <a id="cite-note-13" href="#cite-ref-13">[13]</a>

**1999**

- [Ernst A. Heinz](Ernst_A._Heinz "Ernst A. Heinz") (**1999**). *Endgame Databases and Efficient Index Schemes for Chess.* [ICCA Journal, Vol. 22, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#22_1 "ICGA Journal"), [ps](http://people.csail.mit.edu/heinz/ps/edb_index.ps.gz)
- [Ernst A. Heinz](Ernst_A._Heinz "Ernst A. Heinz") (**1999**). *Knowledgeable Encoding and Querying of Endgame Databases.* [ICCA Journal, Vol. 22, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#22_2 "ICGA Journal"), [ps](http://people.csail.mit.edu/heinz/ps/know_edb.ps.gz)
- [Christoph Wirth](Christoph_Wirth "Christoph Wirth"), [Jürg Nievergelt](J%C3%BCrg_Nievergelt "Jürg Nievergelt") (**1999**). *Exhaustive and Heuristic Retrograde Analysis of the KPPKP Endgame.* [ICCA Journal, Vol. 22, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#22_2 "ICGA Journal") <a id="cite-note-14" href="#cite-ref-14">[14]</a>
- [Eugene Nalimov](Eugene_Nalimov "Eugene Nalimov"), [Christoph Wirth](Christoph_Wirth "Christoph Wirth"), [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**1999**). *[KQQKQQ and the Kasparov-World Game](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4564/)*. [ICCA Journal, Vol. 22, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#22_4 "ICGA Journal")
- [Ulrich Thiemonds](Ulrich_Thiemonds "Ulrich Thiemonds") (**1999**). *Ein regelbasiertes Spielprogramm für Schachendspiele*. [University of Bonn](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Bonn), Diplom thesis, [pdf](https://www.idb.uni-bonn.de/publications/da/da_thiemonds_1999.pdf) (German)
- [Chrilly Donninger](Chrilly_Donninger "Chrilly Donninger") (**1999**). *Der Fortschritt ist nicht aufzuhalten - Chrilly Donninger über Endspieldatenbanken*. [CSS](Computerschach_und_Spiele "Computerschach und Spiele") 6/99, [pdf](http://www.mustrum.de/chrilly/tbs.pdf) (German)

## 2000 ...

- [Haw-ren Fang](Haw-ren_Fang "Haw-ren Fang"), [Tsan-sheng Hsu](Tsan-sheng_Hsu "Tsan-sheng Hsu"), [Shun-Chin Hsu](Shun-Chin_Hsu "Shun-Chin Hsu") (**2000**). *[Construction of Chinese Chess Endgame Databases by Retrograde Analysis](http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/3-540-45579-5_7)*. [CG 2000](CG_2000 "CG 2000")
- [Ken Thompson](Ken_Thompson "Ken Thompson") (**2000**). *The Longest: KRNKNN in 262*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 23, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#23_1 "ICGA Journal")
- [Peter Karrer](Peter_Karrer "Peter Karrer") (**2000**). *KQQKQP and KQPKQP≈*.[ICGA Journal, Vol. 23, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#23_2 "ICGA Journal") <a id="cite-note-15" href="#cite-ref-15">[15]</a>
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2000**). *The Kasparov-World Game*. [EG](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EG_(magazine)>), Vol. 9, pp. 107-111
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2000**). *Six-Man Oracle Survey*. [EG](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EG_(magazine)>), Vol. 9, pp. 111-112
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2000**). *Tablebases and tables*. [EG](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EG_(magazine)>), Vol. 9, pp. 151
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2000**). *Qualified Statistics*. [EG](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EG_(magazine)>), Vol. 9, pp. 239
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2000**). *Chess Endgames: Currents and Futures*. [5th Computer Olympiad Workshop](5th_Computer_Olympiad#Workshop "5th Computer Olympiad")
- [Thomas Lincke](Thomas_Lincke "Thomas Lincke"), [Ambros Marzetta](Ambros_Marzetta "Ambros Marzetta") (**2000**). *Large Endgame Databases with Limited Memory Space*. [5th Computer Olympiad Workshop](5th_Computer_Olympiad#Workshop "5th Computer Olympiad")
- [Thomas Lincke](Thomas_Lincke "Thomas Lincke"), [Ambros Marzetta](Ambros_Marzetta "Ambros Marzetta") (**2000**). *Large Endgame Databases with Limited Memory Space*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 23, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#23_3 "ICGA Journal")
- [Eugene Nalimov](Eugene_Nalimov "Eugene Nalimov"), [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth"), [Ernst A. Heinz](Ernst_A._Heinz "Ernst A. Heinz") (**2000**). *[Space-Efficient Indexing of Chess Endgame Tables](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4562/)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 23, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#23_3 "ICGA Journal"), [postscript](http://supertech.lcs.mit.edu/%7Eheinz/ps/NHH_ICGA.ps.gz)

**2001**

- [John Tamplin](John_Tamplin "John Tamplin"), [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2001**). *[Ken Thompson's 6-man Tables](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4561/)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 24, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#24_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [Harold van der Heijden](Harold_van_der_Heijden "Harold van der Heijden") (**2001**). *[Endgame Tables and Endgame Study Composition](http://ilk.uvt.nl/icga/journal/contents/content24-2.htm#ENDGAME%20TABLES)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 24, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#24_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [Noam Elkies](Noam_Elkies "Noam Elkies") (**2001**). *Endgame Tables and Chess Composition*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 24, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#24_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [Ren Wu](Ren_Wu "Ren Wu"), [Don Beal](Don_Beal "Don Beal") (**2001**). *Fast, Memory-efficient Retrograde Algorithms*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 24, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#24_3 "ICGA Journal") <a id="cite-note-16" href="#cite-ref-16">[16]</a> <a id="cite-note-17" href="#cite-ref-17">[17]</a>
- [Ren Wu](Ren_Wu "Ren Wu"), [Don Beal](Don_Beal "Don Beal") (**2001**). *Parallel Retrograde Analysis on Different Architectures*. IEEE 10th Conference in High Performance Distributed Computing pp. 356-362, August 2001
- [Eugene Nalimov](Eugene_Nalimov "Eugene Nalimov"), [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth"), [Ernst A. Heinz](Ernst_A._Heinz "Ernst A. Heinz") (**2001**). *[Space-efficient Indexing of Endgame Tables for Chess](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4563/)*. [Advances in Computer Games 9](Advances_in_Computer_Games_9 "Advances in Computer Games 9")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2001**). *Four Notes on Chess Endgames*. [6th Computer Olympiad Workshop](6th_Computer_Olympiad#Workshop "6th Computer Olympiad"), [ppt](https://ilk.uvt.nl/icga/news/Olympiad/Olympiad/workshop/Haworth.ppt)

[Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2001**). *Discarding Like Pieces*. [6th Computer Olympiad Workshop](6th_Computer_Olympiad#Workshop "6th Computer Olympiad")
[Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2001**). *Depth by The Rule*. [6th Computer Olympiad Workshop](6th_Computer_Olympiad#Workshop "6th Computer Olympiad")
[Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2001**). *[3-5-Man Chess Data](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/5949/)*. [6th Computer Olympiad Workshop](6th_Computer_Olympiad#Workshop "6th Computer Olympiad")
[Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2001**). *[3-5-Man Mutual Zugzwangs in Chess](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/5950/)*. [6th Computer Olympiad Workshop](6th_Computer_Olympiad#Workshop "6th Computer Olympiad")

- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2001**). *[Discarding Like Pieces](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4594/)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 24, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#24_3 "ICGA Journal")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2001**). *[Depth by The Rule](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4593/)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 24, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#24_3 "ICGA Journal")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth"), [Peter Karrer](Peter_Karrer "Peter Karrer"), [John Tamplin](John_Tamplin "John Tamplin"), [Christoph Wirth](Christoph_Wirth "Christoph Wirth") (**2001**). *[3-5-man chess: Maximals and mzugs](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4581/)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 24, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#24_4 "ICGA Journal")

**2002**

- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2002**). *[Secrets of Pawnless Endings](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4552/)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 25, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#25_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [Eugène Nalimov](Eugene_Nalimov "Eugene Nalimov") (**2002**). *Chess Endgame Tablebases*. Invited Lecture, [7th Computer Olympiad Workshop](7th_Computer_Olympiad#Workshop "7th Computer Olympiad")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2002**). *Reference Fallible Endgame Play*. [7th Computer Olympiad Workshop](7th_Computer_Olympiad#Workshop "7th Computer Olympiad"), [pdf](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4579/1/2002c_CoW7_H_Reference_Fallible_Endgame_Play.pdf)
- [Ren Wu](Ren_Wu "Ren Wu"), [Don Beal](Don_Beal "Don Beal") (**2002**). *A memory efficient retrograde algorithm and its application to solve Chinese Chess endgames.* [More Games of No Chance](http://library.msri.org/books/Book42/) edited by [Richard J. Nowakowski](Richard_J._Nowakowski "Richard J. Nowakowski")

**2003**

- [John Tamplin](John_Tamplin "John Tamplin"), [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2003**). *[Chess Endgames: Data and Strategy](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4547/)*. [Advances in Computer Games 10](Advances_in_Computer_Games_10 "Advances in Computer Games 10")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth"), [Rafael B. Andrist](Rafael_B._Andrist "Rafael B. Andrist") (**2003**). *[Model Endgame Analysis](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4548/)*. [Advances in Computer Games 10](Advances_in_Computer_Games_10 "Advances in Computer Games 10")
- [Jonathan Schaeffer](Jonathan_Schaeffer "Jonathan Schaeffer"), [Yngvi Björnsson](Yngvi_Bj%C3%B6rnsson "Yngvi Björnsson"), [Neil Burch](index.php?title=Neil_Burch&action=edit&redlink=1 "Neil Burch (page does not exist)"), [Rob Lake](index.php?title=Rob_Lake&action=edit&redlink=1 "Rob Lake (page does not exist)"), [Paul Lu](Paul_Lu "Paul Lu"), [Steve Sutphen](index.php?title=Steve_Sutphen&action=edit&redlink=1 "Steve Sutphen (page does not exist)") (**2003**). *Building the Checkers 10-Piece Endgame Databases.* [Advances in Computer Games 10](Advances_in_Computer_Games_10 "Advances in Computer Games 10"). [pdf](http://webdocs.cs.ualberta.ca/%7Ejonathan/Grad/Papers/databases10.pdf) » [Checkers](Checkers "Checkers")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2003**). *[Reference Fallible Endgame Play](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4550/)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 26, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#26_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [Ed Trice](index.php?title=Ed_Trice&action=edit&redlink=1 "Ed Trice (page does not exist)"), [Gil Dodgen](index.php?title=Gil_Dodgen&action=edit&redlink=1 "Gil Dodgen (page does not exist)") (**2003**). *[The Perfect 7-Piece Checkers Database](http://ilk.uvt.nl/icga/journal/contents/content26-4.htm#7%20piece)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 26, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#26_4 "ICGA Journal") » [Checkers](Checkers "Checkers")

**2004**

- [Haw-ren Fang](Haw-ren_Fang "Haw-ren Fang") (**2004**). *[Rule-Tolerant Verification Algorithms for Completeness of Chinese-Chess Endgame Databases](http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/11674399_9)*. [CG 2004](CG_2004 "CG 2004")
- [Eiko Bleicher](Eiko_Bleicher "Eiko Bleicher") (**2004**). *Building Chess Endgame Databases for Positions with many Pieces using A-priori Information*. Lehrstuhl Mathematische Optimierung, [Fakultät für Mathematik und Informatik](http://www.minet.uni-jena.de/), [Friedrich-Schiller-Universität, Jena](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Jena), Germany, as [pdf](http://www.minet.uni-jena.de/preprints/bleicher_04/FREEZER_.PDF)

## 2005 ...

- [Joe Hurd](Joe_Leslie-Hurd "Joe Leslie-Hurd") (**2005**). *Formal Verification of Chess Endgame Databases*. in [Joe Hurd](Joe_Leslie-Hurd "Joe Leslie-Hurd"), Edward Smith, [Ashish Darbari](http://www.informatik.uni-trier.de/~ley/pers/hd/d/Darbari:Ashish) *Theorem proving in higher order logics: Emerging trends proceedings*. Technical Report PRG-RR-05-02, [Oxford University](http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Oxford) Computing Laboratory, [pdf](http://www.gilith.com/research/papers/chess.pdf)
- [Jesper Torp Kristensen](Jesper_Torp_Kristensen "Jesper Torp Kristensen") (**2005**). *[Generation and compression of endgame tables in chess with fast random access using OBDDs](https://issuu.com/jespertk/docs/master_thesis)*. Master thesis, supervisor [Peter Bro Miltersen](Mathematician#Miltersen "Mathematician"), [Aarhus University](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aarhus_University) <a id="cite-note-18" href="#cite-ref-18">[18]</a>
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2005**). *[6-Man Chess Solved](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4522/)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 28, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#28_3 "ICGA Journal")
- [Marc Bourzutschky](Marc_Bourzutschky "Marc Bourzutschky"), [John Tamplin](John_Tamplin "John Tamplin"), [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2005**). *[Chess endgames: 6-man data and strategy](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4524/)*. Theoretical Computer Science, Vol. 349, No. 2
- [Rafael B. Andrist](Rafael_B._Andrist "Rafael B. Andrist"), [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2005**). *[Deeper model endgame analysis](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4523/)*. Theoretical Computer Science, Vol. 349, No. 2
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2005**). *[Chess Endgame News](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4610/)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 28, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#28_4 "ICGA Journal")
- [Yngvi Björnsson](Yngvi_Bj%C3%B6rnsson "Yngvi Björnsson"), [Jonathan Schaeffer](Jonathan_Schaeffer "Jonathan Schaeffer"), [Nathan Sturtevant](Nathan_Sturtevant "Nathan Sturtevant") (**2005**). *[Partial Information Endgame Databases](http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/11922155_2)*. [Advances in Computer Games 11](Advances_in_Computer_Games_11 "Advances in Computer Games 11"), [pdf](http://webdocs.cs.ualberta.ca/~nathanst/papers/partialEndgameDatabases.pdf), [pdf](http://www.ru.is/faculty/yngvi/pdf/BjornssonSS06.pdf)

**2006**

- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2006**). *[Chess Endgame News](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4609/)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 29, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#29_1 "ICGA Journal")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2006**). *[Chess Endgame News](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4608/)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 29, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#29_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2006**). *[Chess Endgame News](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4520/)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 29, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#29_3 "ICGA Journal")

**2008**

- [Bo-Nian Chen](Bo-Nian_Chen "Bo-Nian Chen"), [Pangfeng Liu](Pangfeng_Liu "Pangfeng Liu"), [Shun-Chin Hsu](Shun-Chin_Hsu "Shun-Chin Hsu"), [Tsan-sheng Hsu](Tsan-sheng_Hsu "Tsan-sheng Hsu") (**2008**). *[Knowledge Inferencing on Chinese Chess Endgames](http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-540-87608-3_17)*. [CG 2008](CG_2008 "CG 2008")

**2009**

- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2009**). *[Chess Endgame Update](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/5763/)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 32, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#32_4 "ICGA Journal")

## 2010 ...

- [Bo-Nian Chen](Bo-Nian_Chen "Bo-Nian Chen"), [Pangfeng Liu](Pangfeng_Liu "Pangfeng Liu"), [Shun-Chin Hsu](Shun-Chin_Hsu "Shun-Chin Hsu"), [Tsan-sheng Hsu](Tsan-sheng_Hsu "Tsan-sheng Hsu") (**2010**). *Conflict Resolution of Chinese Chess Endgame Knowledge Base*. [Advances in Computer Games 12](Advances_in_Computer_Games_12 "Advances in Computer Games 12"), [pdf](http://ticc.uvt.nl/icga/acg12/proceedings/Contribution108.pdf)
- [Joe Hurd](Joe_Leslie-Hurd "Joe Leslie-Hurd"), [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2010**). *[Data Assurance in Opaque Computations](http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007%2F978-3-642-12993-3_20)*. [Advances in Computer Games 12](Advances_in_Computer_Games_12 "Advances in Computer Games 12"), [pdf](http://www.gilith.com/research/papers/egt.pdf)
- [Matej Guid](Matej_Guid "Matej Guid"), [Martin Možina](Martin_Mo%C5%BEina "Martin Možina"), [Aleksander Sadikov](Aleksander_Sadikov "Aleksander Sadikov"), [Ivan Bratko](Ivan_Bratko "Ivan Bratko") (**2010**). *[Deriving Concepts and Strategies from Chess Tablebases](http://www.springerlink.com/content/um0l155681087p7h)*. [Advances in Computer Games 12](Advances_in_Computer_Games_12 "Advances in Computer Games 12"), [pdf](http://www.ailab.si/matej/doc/Deriving_Concepts_and_Strategies_from_Chess_Tablebases.pdf)
- [Eiko Bleicher](Eiko_Bleicher "Eiko Bleicher"), [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2010**). *[6-Man Chess and Zugzwangs](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/4518/)*. [Advances in Computer Games 12](Advances_in_Computer_Games_12 "Advances in Computer Games 12")
- [Bo-Nian Chen](Bo-Nian_Chen "Bo-Nian Chen"), [Pangfeng Liu](Pangfeng_Liu "Pangfeng Liu"), [Shun-Chin Hsu](Shun-Chin_Hsu "Shun-Chin Hsu"), [Tsan-sheng Hsu](Tsan-sheng_Hsu "Tsan-sheng Hsu") (**2010**). *[Knowledge Abstraction in Chinese Chess Endgame Databases](http://www.springerlink.com/content/6374711454584j73/)*. [CG 2010](CG_2010 "CG 2010")
- [Ping-hsun Wu](index.php?title=Ping-hsun_Wu&action=edit&redlink=1 "Ping-hsun Wu (page does not exist)"), [Ping-yi Liu](index.php?title=Ping-yi_Liu&action=edit&redlink=1 "Ping-yi Liu (page does not exist)"), [Tsan-sheng Hsu](Tsan-sheng_Hsu "Tsan-sheng Hsu") (**2010**). *An External-memory Retrograde Analysis Algorithm*, slides as [pdf](http://www.iis.sinica.edu.tw/~tshsu/tcg2010/slides/slide12.pdf)
- [Eiko Bleicher](Eiko_Bleicher "Eiko Bleicher"), [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth"), [Harold van der Heijden](Harold_van_der_Heijden "Harold van der Heijden") (**2010**). *[Data-Mining Chess Databases](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/17497/)*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 33, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#33_4 "ICGA Journal")

**2011**

- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2011**). *Chess Endgame News*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 34, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#34_2 "ICGA Journal")

**2013**

- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2013**). *Chess Endgame News*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 36, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#36_1 "ICGA Journal")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2013**). *Chess Endgame News*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 36, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#36_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [Abdallah Saffidine](Abdallah_Saffidine "Abdallah Saffidine"), [Nicolas Jouandeau](index.php?title=Nicolas_Jouandeau&action=edit&redlink=1 "Nicolas Jouandeau (page does not exist)"), [Cédric Buron](index.php?title=C%C3%A9dric_Buron&action=edit&redlink=1 "Cédric Buron (page does not exist)"), [Tristan Cazenave](Tristan_Cazenave "Tristan Cazenave") (**2013**). *Material Symmetry to Partition Endgame Tables*. [CG 2013](CG_2013 "CG 2013")
- [John Nunn](John_Nunn "John Nunn") (**2013**). *Discoveries in R+2P vs. R+P Endings*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 36, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#36_3 "ICGA Journal")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2013**). *Chess Endgame News*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 36, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#36_3 "ICGA Journal")
- [Karsten Müller](Karsten_M%C3%BCller "Karsten Müller"), [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2013**). *Rook vs. Bishop*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 36, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#36_4 "ICGA Journal")
- [Bo-Nian Chen](Bo-Nian_Chen "Bo-Nian Chen"), [Hung-Jui Chang](Hung-Jui_Chang "Hung-Jui Chang"), [Shun-Chin Hsu](Shun-Chin_Hsu "Shun-Chin Hsu"), [Jr-Chang Chen](Jr-Chang_Chen "Jr-Chang Chen"), [Tsan-sheng Hsu](Tsan-sheng_Hsu "Tsan-sheng Hsu") (**2013**). *Multilevel Inference in Chinese Chess Endgame Knowledge Bases*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 36, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#36_4 "ICGA Journal") » [Chinese Chess](Chinese_Chess "Chinese Chess")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2013**). *Chess Endgame News*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 36, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#36_4 "ICGA Journal")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2013**). *Haworth’s Law*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 36, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#36_4 "ICGA Journal")
- [Victor Zakharov](Victor_Zakharov "Victor Zakharov"), [Vladimir Makhnychev](Vladimir_Makhnychev "Vladimir Makhnychev") (**2013**). *Creating tables of chess 7-piece endgames on the Lomonosov supercomputer*. Superkomp’yutery, No. 15

**2014**

- [Bo-Nian Chen](Bo-Nian_Chen "Bo-Nian Chen"), [Hung-Jui Chang](Hung-Jui_Chang "Hung-Jui Chang"), [Shun-Chin Hsu](Shun-Chin_Hsu "Shun-Chin Hsu"), [Jr-Chang Chen](Jr-Chang_Chen "Jr-Chang Chen"), [Tsan-sheng Hsu](Tsan-sheng_Hsu "Tsan-sheng Hsu") (**2014**). *Advanced Meta-knowledge for Chinese Chess Endgame Knowledge Bases*. [ICGA Journal, Vol 37, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#37_1 "ICGA Journal") » [Chinese Chess](Chinese_Chess "Chinese Chess")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2014**). *Chess Endgame News*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 37, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#37_1 "ICGA Journal") » [Syzygy Bases](Syzygy_Bases "Syzygy Bases")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2014**). *Chess Endgame News*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 37, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#37_2 "ICGA Journal") » [Syzygy Bases](Syzygy_Bases "Syzygy Bases")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2014**). *Chess Endgame News*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 37, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#37_3 "ICGA Journal") » [Syzygy Bases](Syzygy_Bases "Syzygy Bases")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2014**). *[Chess Endgame Records (dataset)](http://centaur.reading.ac.uk/34268/)*.

## 2015 ...

- [Nikolaos Papahristou](index.php?title=Nikolaos_Papahristou&action=edit&redlink=1 "Nikolaos Papahristou (page does not exist)"), [Ioannis Refanidis](index.php?title=Ioannis_Refanidis&action=edit&redlink=1 "Ioannis Refanidis (page does not exist)") (**2015**). *Constructing Pin Endgame Databases for the Backgammon Variant Plakoto*. [Advances in Computer Games 14](Advances_in_Computer_Games_14 "Advances in Computer Games 14") <a id="cite-note-19" href="#cite-ref-19">[19]</a>
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2015**). *Chess Endgame News*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 38, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#38_1 "ICGA Journal") » [Crafty](Crafty "Crafty"), [FinalGen](FinalGen "FinalGen")
- [Galen Huntington](index.php?title=Galen_Huntington&action=edit&redlink=1 "Galen Huntington (page does not exist)"), [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2015**). *Depth to Mate and the 50-Move Rule*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 38, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#38_2 "ICGA Journal") » [Fifty-Move Rule](Fifty-move_Rule "Fifty-move Rule") <a id="cite-note-20" href="#cite-ref-20">[20]</a>
- [Michael Hartisch](index.php?title=Michael_Hartisch&action=edit&redlink=1 "Michael Hartisch (page does not exist)"), [Ingo Althöfer](Ingo_Alth%C3%B6fer "Ingo Althöfer") (**2015**). *Optimal Robot Play in Certain Chess Endgame Situations*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 38, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#38_3 "ICGA Journal")

**2016**

- [Victor Zakharov](Victor_Zakharov "Victor Zakharov"), [Michael G. Malkovsky](Michael_G._Malkovsky "Michael G. Malkovsky"), [Vladislav Y. Shchukin](Vladislav_Y._Shchukin "Vladislav Y. Shchukin") (**2016**). *[Compression of underdetermined data in a 7-piece chess table](http://link.springer.com/article/10.3103%2FS0278641916010076)*. [Moscow University Computational Mathematics and Cybernetics](http://www.springer.com/mathematics/journal/11968), Vol. 40, No. 1 <a id="cite-note-21" href="#cite-ref-21">[21]</a>

**2017**

- [Karsten Müller](Karsten_M%C3%BCller "Karsten Müller") (**2017**). *Tablebases, Fermat, Knights and Knightmares*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 39, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#39_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2017**). *Chess Endgame News*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 39, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#39_2 "ICGA Journal")
- [Hung-Jui Chang](Hung-Jui_Chang "Hung-Jui Chang"), [Gang-Yu Fan](index.php?title=Gang-Yu_Fan&action=edit&redlink=1 "Gang-Yu Fan (page does not exist)"), [Jr-Chang Chen](Jr-Chang_Chen "Jr-Chang Chen"), [Chih-Wen Hsueh](Chih-Wen_Hsueh "Chih-Wen Hsueh"), [Tsan-sheng Hsu](Tsan-sheng_Hsu "Tsan-sheng Hsu") (**2017**). *[Validating and Fine-Tuning of Game Evaluation Functions Using Endgame Databases](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-75931-9_10)*. [CGW@IJCAI 2017](Conferences#IJCAI2017 "Conferences")

**2018**

- [Hung-Jui Chang](Hung-Jui_Chang "Hung-Jui Chang"), [Jr-Chang Chen](Jr-Chang_Chen "Jr-Chang Chen"), [Gang-Yu Fan](index.php?title=Gang-Yu_Fan&action=edit&redlink=1 "Gang-Yu Fan (page does not exist)"), [Chih-Wen Hsueh](Chih-Wen_Hsueh "Chih-Wen Hsueh"), [Tsan-sheng Hsu](Tsan-sheng_Hsu "Tsan-sheng Hsu") (**2018**). *Using Chinese dark chess endgame databases to validate and fine-tune game evaluation functions*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 40, No. 2](ICGA_Journal#40_2 "ICGA Journal") » [Chinese Dark Chess](Chinese_Dark_Chess "Chinese Dark Chess")

**2019**

- [Karsten Müller](Karsten_M%C3%BCller "Karsten Müller"), [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2019**). *FinalGen revisited: new discoveries*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 41, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#41_1 "ICGA Journal") » [FinalGen](FinalGen "FinalGen")
- [Karsten Müller](Karsten_M%C3%BCller "Karsten Müller"), [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2019**). *Stalemate and ‘DTS’ depth to stalemate endgame tables*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 41, No. 4](ICGA_Journal#41_4 "ICGA Journal")  » [Stalemate](Stalemate "Stalemate")

## 2020 ...

- [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") (**2020**). *CEN: Thomas Ströhlein’s Endgame Tables, a 50th Anniversary*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 42, Nos. 2-3](ICGA_Journal#42_23 "ICGA Journal")
- [Rejwana Haque](index.php?title=Rejwana_Haque&action=edit&redlink=1 "Rejwana Haque (page does not exist)"), [Ting Han Wei](index.php?title=Ting_Han_Wei&action=edit&redlink=1 "Ting Han Wei (page does not exist)"), [Martin Müller](Martin_M%C3%BCller "Martin Müller") (**2021**). *On the Road to Perfection? Evaluating Leela Chess Zero Against Endgame Tablebases*. [Advances in Computer Games 17](Advances_in_Computer_Games_17 "Advances in Computer Games 17")
- [Dave Gomboc](Dave_Gomboc "Dave Gomboc"), [Christian R. Shelton](index.php?title=Christian_R._Shelton&action=edit&redlink=1 "Christian R. Shelton (page does not exist)") (**2021**). *Chess endgame compression via logic minimization*. [Advances in Computer Games 17](Advances_in_Computer_Games_17 "Advances in Computer Games 17")

## Forum Posts

## 1995 ...

- [endgame databases and Kasparov](https://groups.google.com/d/msg/rec.games.chess/DBNZkyTtSUQ/PVd9C3UGXpwJ) by [Feng-hsiung Hsu](Feng-hsiung_Hsu "Feng-hsiung Hsu"), [rgc](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), April 25, 1995
- [Tablebases and castling?](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.games.chess.computer/browse_frm/thread/39b9eb099ae1a5e9) by [Ronald de Man](Ronald_de_Man "Ronald de Man"), [rgcc](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), May 12, 1997
- [Steve Edward's Endgame Tablebase generator is now available for WIN95](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=11493) by [Mike Byrne](Michael_Byrne "Michael Byrne"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), November 01, 1997
- [Questions about Endgame tablebases](https://groups.google.com/d/msg/rec.games.chess.computer/X7QO1spJ4SE/pLsSj0nlFAoJ) by Alexander Nitschke, [rgcc](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), March 19, 1998
- [Tablebases](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=25540) by [Eugene Nalimov](Eugene_Nalimov "Eugene Nalimov"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), August 28, 1998 » [Nalimov Tablebases](Nalimov_Tablebases "Nalimov Tablebases")
- [Ideas to reduce size of tablebases](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=25755) by [Rémi Coulom](R%C3%A9mi_Coulom "Rémi Coulom"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), August 31, 1998
- [endgame databases](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.games.chess.computer/browse_frm/thread/88d16e7b3ad524f1) by [Robert Hyatt](Robert_Hyatt "Robert Hyatt"), [rgcc](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), October 13, 1998
- [Interesting endgame database probe problem](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=42184) by [Robert Hyatt](Robert_Hyatt "Robert Hyatt"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), February 04, 1999

## [overlapping tablebase lookup](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=42763) by [Jay Scott](Jay_Scott "Jay Scott"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), February 09, 1999 2000 ...

- [Tablebase Access Code](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=107902) by [Roberto Waldteufel](Roberto_Waldteufel "Roberto Waldteufel"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), April 26, 2000 » [Rabbit](Rabbit "Rabbit")
- [EGTB: Better algorithm](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=162252) by [Urban Koistinen](Urban_Koistinen "Urban Koistinen"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), April 07, 2001 <a id="cite-note-22" href="#cite-ref-22">[22]</a>
- [Re: How endgame tablebases work](http://groups.google.com/group/rec.games.chess.computer/msg/392bcd5797808c0e) by [Bruce Moreland](Bruce_Moreland "Bruce Moreland"), [rgcc](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), July 19, 2001
- [PONDER=ON and TableBases on 1 PC](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=181281) by [Matthias Gemuh](Matthias_Gemuh "Matthias Gemuh"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), July 27, 2001 » [Pondering](Pondering "Pondering")
- [Nalimov's EGTBs (long post with code)](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=192968) by [Heiner Marxen](Heiner_Marxen "Heiner Marxen"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), October 13, 2001
- [Incomplete egtbs can be harmful](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=195809) by [Leen Ammeraal](Leen_Ammeraal "Leen Ammeraal"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), November 06, 2001
- [Generating egtbs ICGAJ](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=200335) by [Tony Werten](Tony_van_Roon-Werten "Tony van Roon-Werten"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), December 04, 2001 <a id="cite-note-23" href="#cite-ref-23">[23]</a> <a id="cite-note-24" href="#cite-ref-24">[24]</a>

[Wu/Beal predates Koistinen](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=200376) by [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), December 04, 2001

- [3-3 tablebase (with pawns) suggestion](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=203322) by [Shane Hudson](Shane_Hudson "Shane Hudson"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), December 23, 2001
- [Interesting EGTB bug](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=224008) by [Tom Likens](Tom_Likens "Tom Likens"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), April 16, 2002
- [Question to Dieter Buerssner](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=224950) by [Alvaro Cardoso](Alvaro_Cardoso "Alvaro Cardoso"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), April 21, 2002
- [How to handle EGTB stalemates](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=287563) by [Tom Likens](Tom_Likens "Tom Likens"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), March 02, 2003 » [Stalemate](Stalemate "Stalemate")
- [EGTB generation with 1 bit per position?](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=290629) by [Martin Fierz](Martin_Fierz "Martin Fierz"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), March 25, 2003
- [Frank Phillips' KNNKP position revisited ...](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=316547) by [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), September 18, 2003 <a id="cite-note-25" href="#cite-ref-25">[25]</a>

## 2005 ...

- [EGTB question](http://www.open-aurec.com/wbforum/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=4118) by [Stef Luijten](index.php?title=Stef_Luijten&action=edit&redlink=1 "Stef Luijten (page does not exist)"), [Winboard Forum](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), January 09, 2006
- [EGTB compression](http://www.open-aurec.com/wbforum/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=4307) by [Stef Luijten](index.php?title=Stef_Luijten&action=edit&redlink=1 "Stef Luijten (page does not exist)"), [Winboard Forum](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), February 10, 2006
- [utility for testing tablebases integrity](http://kirill-kryukov.com/chess/discussion-board/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=2759) by [Victor Zakharov](Victor_Zakharov "Victor Zakharov"), [CCRL Discussion Board](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), October 24, 2007
- [Chris Wirth's endgame tablebases](http://kirill-kryukov.com/chess/discussion-board/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=2923) by [Denis P. Mendoza](Denis_Mendoza "Denis Mendoza"), [CCRL Endgame Tablebases](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), December 13, 2007 » [Chessterfield](Chessterfield "Chessterfield")
- [EGTB compression (H. G. Muller tablebase...)](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=19178) by [Dann Corbit](Dann_Corbit "Dann Corbit"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), January 25, 2008
- [Endgame Metrics](http://kirill-kryukov.com/chess/discussion-board/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=3220) by [Joshua Shriver](index.php?title=Joshua_Shriver&action=edit&redlink=1 "Joshua Shriver (page does not exist)"), [CCRL Discussion Board](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), March 04, 2008

[Re: Endgame Metrics](http://kirill-kryukov.com/chess/discussion-board/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=3220&start=16) by [John Kominek](John_Kominek "John Kominek"), [CCRL Discussion Board](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), March 12, 2008

- [DTR is no good!](http://kirill-kryukov.com/chess/discussion-board/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=3934) by [Harm Geert Muller](Harm_Geert_Muller "Harm Geert Muller"), [CCRL Discussion Board](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), September 24, 2008
- [Gaviota's Endgame Tablebases](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=25311) by [Miguel A. Ballicora](Miguel_A._Ballicora "Miguel A. Ballicora"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), December 07, 2008 » [Gaviota Tablebases](Gaviota_Tablebases "Gaviota Tablebases")
- [Creating EGTBs](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=25546) by [Carey](Carey_Bloodworth "Carey Bloodworth"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), December 21, 2008
- [Other endgame tablebase generators](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=26184) by [Denis P. Mendoza](Denis_Mendoza "Denis Mendoza"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), January 23, 2009
- [Other endgame tablebase generators](http://kirill-kryukov.com/chess/discussion-board/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=4219) by [Denis P. Mendoza](Denis_Mendoza "Denis Mendoza"), [CCRL Endgame Tablebases](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), January 28, 2009

## 2010 ...

- [KK partitioning+very cheap compression fit in 8 GB (7-man)](http://kirill-kryukov.com/chess/discussion-board/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=5163) by [Urban Koistinen](Urban_Koistinen "Urban Koistinen"), [CCRL Discussion Board](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), May 30, 2010
- [Some tablebase formats](http://www.open-chess.org/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=778) by [BB+](Mark_Watkins "Mark Watkins"), [OpenChess Forum](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), November 25, 2010
- [Retrograde tablebase methods](http://www.open-chess.org/viewtopic.php?f=5&t=779) by [BB+](Mark_Watkins "Mark Watkins"), [OpenChess Forum](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), November 26, 2010

**2011**

- [Gaviota tablebases, probing code v4 (UPDATE)](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=38372) by [Miguel A. Ballicora](Miguel_A._Ballicora "Miguel A. Ballicora"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), March 11, 2011
- [Large tablebases](http://www.open-chess.org/viewtopic.php?f=5&t=1364) by [BB+](Mark_Watkins "Mark Watkins"), [OpenChess Forum](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), April 21, 2011
- [Mapping the 7-men computation](http://kirill-kryukov.com/chess/discussion-board/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=6142) by Astokes, [CCRL Discussion Board](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), September 21, 2011
- [Poor Man Table Base](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=41435) by [Ed Schroder](Ed_Schroder "Ed Schroder"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), December 13, 2011
- [Number sequence puzzle](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=41467) by [Steven Edwards](Steven_Edwards "Steven Edwards"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), December 16, 2011 <a id="cite-note-26" href="#cite-ref-26">[26]</a>
- [Tablebase class name list available](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=41524) by [Steven Edwards](Steven_Edwards "Steven Edwards"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), December 19, 2011 » [CookieCat](CookieCat "CookieCat")

**2012**

- [Compression of chess databases](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=44347) by [Edmund Moshammer](Edmund_Moshammer "Edmund Moshammer"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), July 09, 2012
- [pawn enumeration](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=44553) by [Daniel Shawul](Daniel_Shawul "Daniel Shawul"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), July 24, 2012

**2013**

- [New 6-piece tablebases](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=47681) by [Ronald de Man](Ronald_de_Man "Ronald de Man"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), April 01, 2013
- [New 6-piece tablebase generator](http://kirill-kryukov.com/chess/discussion-board/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=6971) by [syzygy](Ronald_de_Man "Ronald de Man"), [CCRL Discussion Board](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), April 01, 2013 » [Syzygy Bases](Syzygy_Bases "Syzygy Bases")
- [Complete 7-piece tablebases are out!](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=47768) by [Albert Silver](Albert_Silver "Albert Silver"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), April 12, 2013 <a id="cite-note-27" href="#cite-ref-27">[27]</a>
- [Multithreaded LRU](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=49592) by [Alvaro Cardoso](Alvaro_Cardoso "Alvaro Cardoso"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), October 06, 2013 » [Memory](Memory "Memory")
- [What happens using egbb](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=49684) by [Kai Laskos](Kai_Laskos "Kai Laskos"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), October 12, 2013 » [Scorpio Bitbases](Scorpio_Bitbases "Scorpio Bitbases")
- [tablebase caching / mmap() / page cache](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=49702) by [Ronald de Man](Ronald_de_Man "Ronald de Man"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), October 13, 2013 » [Memory](Memory "Memory"), [Syzygy Bases](Syzygy_Bases "Syzygy Bases")
- [How to encode endgame tablebases](http://rybkaforum.net/cgi-bin/rybkaforum/topic_show.pl?tid=27815) by Mr. beo, [Rybka Forum](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), October 18, 2013
- [Could EGTB make an Engine "weaker"?](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=49805) by Bill Henry, [CCC](CCC "CCC"), October 23, 2013
- [evaluating tablebases draws](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=50194) by [Uri Blass](Uri_Blass "Uri Blass"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), November 23, 2013 » [Draw Evaluation](Draw_Evaluation "Draw Evaluation")
- [Table Base Cache Size question](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=50334) by Rob Nicholas, [CCC](CCC "CCC"), December 05, 2013 » [Memory](Memory "Memory")

**2014**

- [Scorpio 6men EGBB Now available](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=50894) by [Joshua Shriver](index.php?title=Joshua_Shriver&action=edit&redlink=1 "Joshua Shriver (page does not exist)"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), January 14, 2014 » [Scorpio Bitbases](Scorpio_Bitbases "Scorpio Bitbases")
- [On-demand tablebase generation](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=50962) by [Evert Glebbeek](Evert_Glebbeek "Evert Glebbeek"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), January 19, 2014
- [Endgame tablebase generation for newbies](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=51847) by [Alberto Sanjuan](Alberto_Sanjuan "Alberto Sanjuan"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), April 04, 2014
- [Reducing tablebase size with search](http://www.talkchess.com/forum3/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=51883) by [Russell Reagan](Russell_Reagan "Russell Reagan"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), April 07, 2014
- [A different tablebase encoding format](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=53244) by [Steven Edwards](Steven_Edwards "Steven Edwards"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), August 10, 2014
- [Tablebase access using a Solid State Disk](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=54064) by [Steven Edwards](Steven_Edwards "Steven Edwards"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), October 16, 2014 » [Memory](Memory "Memory")

## 2015 ...

- [how to probe egtb from console?](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=56363) by [Marco Belli](Marco_Belli "Marco Belli"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), May 15, 2015 » [CLI](CLI "CLI")
- [Yet another KPK endgame table generator: pfkpk](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=57517) by [Marcel van Kervinck](Marcel_van_Kervinck "Marcel van Kervinck"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), September 05, 2015 » [KPK](KPK "KPK") [Bitbase](Endgame_Bitbases "Endgame Bitbases") <a id="cite-note-28" href="#cite-ref-28">[28]</a>
- [Is there tools to get the longest DTM/DTC for elementary EG?](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=57331) by [Vincent Lejeune](index.php?title=Vincent_Lejeune&action=edit&redlink=1 "Vincent Lejeune (page does not exist)"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), September 07, 2015
- [7 men Rook endgames H4 vs SF in recent TCEC stage 1b](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=57539) by Nay Lin Tun, [CCC](CCC "CCC"), September 07, 2015 » [Rook Endgame](Rook_Endgame "Rook Endgame"), [TCEC Season 8](TCEC_Season_8 "TCEC Season 8")

**2016**

- [Nalimov EGTB problem related to DTM?](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=59237) by [Kai Laskos](Kai_Laskos "Kai Laskos"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), February 14, 2016 » [Nalimov Tablebases](Nalimov_Tablebases "Nalimov Tablebases"), [DTM](Endgame_Tablebases#DTM "Endgame Tablebases")

[Re: Nalimov EGTB problem related to DTM?](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=59237&start=7) by [Ronald de Man](Ronald_de_Man "Ronald de Man"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), February 14, 2016

- [6-men tablebase wanted](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=59422) by [Harm Geert Muller](Harm_Geert_Muller "Harm Geert Muller"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), March 03, 2016
- [Good testsets for tablebases testing](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=60169) by [Sergei S. Markoff](Sergei_Markoff "Sergei Markoff"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), May 15, 2016 » [Test-Positions](Test_Positions "Test-Positions")

[EPD to test EGTB probe code](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=60244) by [Sergei S. Markoff](Sergei_Markoff "Sergei Markoff"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), May 24, 2016

- [11-men tablebases (XQ)](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=60255) by [Harm Geert Muller](Harm_Geert_Muller "Harm Geert Muller"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), May 23, 2016 » [Xiangqi](Chinese_Chess "Chinese Chess")
- [Natural TB](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=60312) by [Marco Costalba](Marco_Costalba "Marco Costalba"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), May 29, 2016 » [Syzygy Bases](Syzygy_Bases "Syzygy Bases"), [Stockfish](Stockfish "Stockfish")
- [How texel probes endgame tablebases](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=60833) by [Peter Österlund](Peter_%C3%96sterlund "Peter Österlund"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), July 16, 2016 » [Gaviota Tablebases](Gaviota_Tablebases "Gaviota Tablebases"), [Syzygy Bases](Syzygy_Bases "Syzygy Bases"), [Texel](Texel "Texel")
- [Getting engines to use TBs in Arena](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=60873) by [Brendan J. Norman](index.php?title=Brendan_J._Norman&action=edit&redlink=1 "Brendan J. Norman (page does not exist)"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), July 19, 2016 » [Arena](Arena "Arena")
- [Syzygy and draw by repetition](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=60906) by [Jon Dart](Jon_Dart "Jon Dart"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), July 22, 2016 » [Draw](Draw "Draw"), [Repetitions](Repetitions "Repetitions"), [Syzygy Bases](Syzygy_Bases "Syzygy Bases")
- [Verifiability of endgame tablebases](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=60918) by Joan Charmant, [CCC](CCC "CCC"), July 23, 2016

**2017**

- [Checkers Is Strongly-Solved for 8-pieces](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=63153) by [Ed Trice](index.php?title=Ed_Trice&action=edit&redlink=1 "Ed Trice (page does not exist)"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), February 12, 2017 » [Checkers](Checkers "Checkers")
- [Search Halting Criteria When Probing Tablebases](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=63314) by [Ed Trice](index.php?title=Ed_Trice&action=edit&redlink=1 "Ed Trice (page does not exist)"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), March 02, 2017
- [Probe EGT in quiescence?](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=64030) by [Nguyen Pham](Pham_Hong_Nguyen "Pham Hong Nguyen"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), May 20, 2017 » [Quiescence Search](Quiescence_Search "Quiescence Search"), [Xiangqi](Chinese_Chess "Chinese Chess")
- [Incorporating Endgame tablebases](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=64059) by Pranav Deshpande, [CCC](CCC "CCC"), May 24, 2017
- [EGTB probe in search](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=64767) by [Erin Dame](Erin_Dame "Erin Dame"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), July 30, 2017
- [Natural TB (take 2)](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=60312&start=240) by [Marco Costalba](Marco_Costalba "Marco Costalba"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), August 22, 2017 » [Syzygy Bases](Syzygy_Bases "Syzygy Bases"), [Stockfish](Stockfish "Stockfish")
- [understanding DTZ](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=65390) by [Alexandru Mosoi](Alexandru_Mosoi "Alexandru Mosoi"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), October 06, 2017 » [DTZ](Endgame_Tablebases#DTZ "Endgame Tablebases"), [Syzygy Bases](Syzygy_Bases "Syzygy Bases"), [Fathom](Syzygy_Bases#Fathom "Syzygy Bases")

**2018**

- [A new design for Xianqgi (Chinese chess) Endgame Tablebase](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=66337) by [Nguyen Pham](Pham_Hong_Nguyen "Pham Hong Nguyen"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), January 16, 2018 » [Chinese Chess](Chinese_Chess "Chinese Chess")
- [Question about EGT formats](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=66423) by [Harm Geert Muller](Harm_Geert_Muller "Harm Geert Muller"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), January 26, 2018
- [The history of Syzygy tablebases](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=66754) by Isaac Haïk Dunn, [CCC](CCC "CCC"), March 06, 2018 » [Syzygy Bases](Syzygy_Bases "Syzygy Bases")
- [DTM50](http://www.talkchess.com/forum3/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=67536) by [Ronald de Man](Ronald_de_Man "Ronald de Man"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), May 22, 2018

**2019**

- [Generate EGTB with graphics cards?](http://www.talkchess.com/forum3/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=69447) by [Nguyen Pham](Pham_Hong_Nguyen "Pham Hong Nguyen"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), January 01, 2019 » [GPU](GPU "GPU")
- [longest 6-man EGTB win](http://www.talkchess.com/forum3/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=72158) by Zenmastur, [CCC](CCC "CCC"), October 24, 2019

## 2020 ...

- [Retrograde analysis - TBs move sequences to checkmate](http://www.talkchess.com/forum3/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=73332) by Hedinn Steingrimsson, [CCC](CCC "CCC"), March 12, 2020
- [Using Freeware AI and Dynamically Generated Endgame Tablebases](http://www.talkchess.com/forum3/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=73481) by Steve Schooler, [CCC](CCC "CCC"), March 27, 2020
- [Almost perfect DTM tablebase](http://www.talkchess.com/forum3/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=73598) by [Dann Corbit](Dann_Corbit "Dann Corbit"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), April 08, 2020
- [Asynchronous tablebase lookups](http://www.talkchess.com/forum3/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=76089) by [Sesse](Steinar_H._Gunderson "Steinar H. Gunderson"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), December 17, 2020 <a id="cite-note-29" href="#cite-ref-29">[29]</a>

**2021**

- [Stalemate Tablebases](http://www.talkchess.com/forum3/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=76659) by Dries De Clercq, [CCC](CCC "CCC"), February 21, 2021 » [Stalemate](Stalemate "Stalemate")
- [knbk DTM](http://www.talkchess.com/forum3/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=77249) by [Martin Sedlak](Martin_Sedlak "Martin Sedlak"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), May 05, 2021 » [KBNK Endgame](KBNK_Endgame "KBNK Endgame"), [DTM](#DTM)

[Re: knbk DTM](http://www.talkchess.com/forum3/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=77249&start=4) by [Harm Geert Muller](Harm_Geert_Muller "Harm Geert Muller"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), May 05, 2021 » [Marcel van Kervinck's](Marcel_van_Kervinck "Marcel van Kervinck") pretty fast kbnk generator

- [tablebase neural nets](http://www.talkchess.com/forum3/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=77899) by [Robert Pope](Robert_Pope "Robert Pope"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), August 07, 2021 » [Neural Networks](Neural_Networks "Neural Networks")

**2022**

- [endgame table generation](http://www.talkchess.com/forum3/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=80696) by [Dave Gomboc](Dave_Gomboc "Dave Gomboc"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), September 17, 2022

## External Links

- [Chess Endgames](https://icga.org/icga/games/chess/endgames.php), [ICGA](ICGA "ICGA") site compiled by [Guy Haworth](Guy_Haworth "Guy Haworth") and colleagues
- [Endgame tablebase from Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endgame_tablebase)
- [Endgame Tablebases and Bitbases List](http://computer-chess.org/doku.php?id=computer_chess:wiki:lists:egtbs_list) from [Computer-Chess Wiki](http://computer-chess.org/doku.php?id=home) by [Ron Murawski](Ron_Murawski "Ron Murawski")
- [QUEEN vs. ROOK](http://quux.org:70/Archives/usenet-a-news/NET.chess/82.01.07_sri-unix.458_net.chess.txt) by [Warren Stenberg](http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-62632443.html) and Edware J. Conway, reprinted from the January, 1979 issue of the Minnesota Chess Journal, The Usenet Oldnews Archive, Compilation Copyright (C) 1981, 1996 Bruce Jones, Henry Spencer, David Wiseman » [ACM 1978](ACM_1978 "ACM 1978"), [Belle](Belle "Belle"), [Walter Browne](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Browne)
- [Gilith - Chess Endgames](http://www.gilith.com/chess/endgames/) by [Joe Leslie-Hurd](Joe_Leslie-Hurd "Joe Leslie-Hurd")
- [Endgame Tablebases - gaviota chess engine](http://sites.google.com/site/gaviotachessengine/Home/endgame-tablebases-1) by [Miguel A. Ballicora](Miguel_A._Ballicora "Miguel A. Ballicora") <a id="cite-note-30" href="#cite-ref-30">[30]</a>

[Compression Schemes for Gaviota Tablebases](http://sites.google.com/site/gaviotachessengine/schemes)

- [Computing endgames with few men](http://www.abc.se/~m10051/eg.txt) by [Urban Koistinen](Urban_Koistinen "Urban Koistinen") <a id="cite-note-31" href="#cite-ref-31">[31]</a> <a id="cite-note-32" href="#cite-ref-32">[32]</a> <a id="cite-note-33" href="#cite-ref-33">[33]</a>
- [Koistinen/Endgame · GitHub](https://github.com/Koistinen/Endgame)
- [End-Game Table Bases](http://home.hccnet.nl/h.g.muller/EGTB.html) by [Harm Geert Muller](Harm_Geert_Muller "Harm Geert Muller")
- [The Leapfrog Tablebase Generator](http://home.hccnet.nl/h.g.muller/EGT7/7-men.html) by [Harm Geert Muller](Harm_Geert_Muller "Harm Geert Muller")
- [Hoffman](http://www.freesoft.org/software/hoffman/) by [Brent Baccala](index.php?title=Brent_Baccala&action=edit&redlink=1 "Brent Baccala (page does not exist)")
- [Endgame databases](http://www.vlasak.biz/tablebase.htm) by [Emil Vlasák](index.php?title=Emil_Vlas%C3%A1k&action=edit&redlink=1 "Emil Vlasák (page does not exist)")
- [CCRL Discussion Board - Endgame Tablebases](http://kirill-kryukov.com/chess/discussion-board/viewforum.php?f=6)
- [Guide to the use of Computer Chess Endgame Tablebases](http://www.horizonchess.com/FAQ/Winboard/egtb.html) from [FAQ on Winboard and Chess Engines](http://www.horizonchess.com/FAQ/Winboard/index.html) by [Aaron Tay](Aaron_Tay "Aaron Tay")
- [Can use of endgame tablebases weaken play?](http://www.horizonchess.com/FAQ/Winboard/weaktablebase.html) from [FAQ on Winboard and Chess Engines](http://www.horizonchess.com/FAQ/Winboard/index.html) by [Aaron Tay](Aaron_Tay "Aaron Tay")
- [Can We Solve Chess One Day? | Gödel's Lost Letter and P=NP](http://rjlipton.wordpress.com/2010/05/12/can-we-solve-chess-one-day/) by [Dick Lipton](Mathematician#RJLipton "Mathematician"), May 12, 2010
- [Build Your Own Chess Endgame Monster - Level Up Coding](https://levelup.gitconnected.com/build-your-own-chess-endgame-monster-a3fb23bb3ec1) by [Don Cross](Don_Cross "Don Cross"), February 17, 2020

## GitHub

- [syzygy1/tb · GitHub](https://github.com/syzygy1/tb) by [Ronald de Man](Ronald_de_Man "Ronald de Man") <a id="cite-note-34" href="#cite-ref-34">[34]</a>
- [dshawul/Scorpio · GitHub](https://github.com/dshawul/Scorpio) includes Six men egbb code » [Scorpio Bitbases](Scorpio_Bitbases "Scorpio Bitbases") <a id="cite-note-35" href="#cite-ref-35">[35]</a>
- [kervinck/pfkpk · GitHub](https://github.com/kervinck/pfkpk) » [KPK](KPK "KPK") [Bitbase](Endgame_Bitbases "Endgame Bitbases") by [Marcel van Kervinck](Marcel_van_Kervinck "Marcel van Kervinck") <a id="cite-note-36" href="#cite-ref-36">[36]</a>
- [GitHub - cosinekitty/endgame: Chess endgame database generator](https://github.com/cosinekitty/endgame) by [Don Cross](Don_Cross "Don Cross")

## [ChessBase](ChessBase "ChessBase")

- [Engines and endgame tablebases](http://en.chessbase.com/post/engines-and-endgame-tablebases) by [Albert Silver](Albert_Silver "Albert Silver"), [ChessBase News](ChessBase "ChessBase"), December 12, 2013
- [Perfect endgame play – with tablebases](http://en.chessbase.com/post/perfect-endgame-play-with-tablebases), [ChessBase News](ChessBase "ChessBase"), April 21, 2015
- [Just one of 17,823,400,766 positions](http://en.chessbase.com/post/just-one-of-17-823-400-766-positions-2) by [Frederic Friedel](Frederic_Friedel "Frederic Friedel"), [ChessBase News](ChessBase "ChessBase"), April 23, 2015
- [Endgame tablebases: A short history](https://en.chessbase.com/post/endgame-tablebases-a-short-history) [Albert Silver](Albert_Silver "Albert Silver"), [ChessBase News](ChessBase "ChessBase"), March 16, 2018

## [ChessOK](ChessOK "ChessOK")

- [Lomonosov Endgame Tablebases](http://chessok.com/?page_id=27966)

## Online Lookup

- [Chess Cloud Database Query Interface](https://www.chessdb.cn/queryc_en/) by [noobpwnftw](Bojun_Guo "Bojun Guo") [Syzygy](Syzygy_Bases "Syzygy Bases") DTZ50 probing
- [Lomonosov - online 7-man tablebases](http://tb7.chessok.com/)
- [Endgame Nalimov Tablebases Online](http://chessok.com/?page_id=361) by [ChessOK](ChessOK "ChessOK")
- [Nalimov EGTB](http://www.gmchess.com/endgames/) from [GMchess.com](http://www.gmchess.com/index.html)
- [Nalimov Tablebase server (DTM)](http://www.lokasoft.nl/tbweb.htm) by [Lokasoft](Lokasoft "Lokasoft")
- [Web Query for Nalimov Endgame Tablebases (DTM)](http://www.k4it.de/index.php?topic=egtb&lang=en) from [Knowledge4IT](http://www.k4it.de/index.php?topic=impressum&lang=en) by [Eiko Bleicher](Eiko_Bleicher "Eiko Bleicher")
- [Chess Archives - Endgames (DTC, DTM, DTZ, DTZ-50)](http://chess.jaet.org/endings/) hosted by [John Tamplin](John_Tamplin "John Tamplin")
- [Schach Endspiele (DTM)](http://www.rack.de/chess/endspiele.cgi) (German) by [Joachim Rack](http://www.rack.de)

## Download

- [Endgame Tablebases Online - 6-men endgame analysis free for everyone](http://kirill-kryukov.com/chess/tablebases-online/) by [Kirill Kryukov](Kirill_Kryukov "Kirill Kryukov") (3,4,5,6 pieces - via [emule](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EMule))
- [Index of /tablebases](http://chess.cygnitec.com/tablebases/) by [kingliveson](Franklin_Titus "Franklin Titus")
- [tablebase.sesse.net](http://tablebase.sesse.net/) by [Sesse](Steinar_H._Gunderson "Steinar H. Gunderson")

## Statistics

- [Theoretical statistics for chess endgames with up to five pieces](https://ulthiel.com/math/other/endgames/) by [Ulrich Thiel](Mathematician#UlrichThiel "Mathematician")

## References

1. <a id="cite-ref-1" href="#cite-note-1">↑</a> [Chess in the Art of Samuel Bak](http://chgs.elevator.umn.edu/asset/viewAsset/57f3b6787d58ae5f74bf8ba9#57f3b6d77d58ae5574bf8bd8), [Center for Holocaust & Genocide Studies](http://www.chgs.umn.edu/), [University of Minnesota](University_of_Minnesota "University of Minnesota")
1. <a id="cite-ref-2" href="#cite-note-2">↑</a> [Ernst A. Heinz](Ernst_A._Heinz "Ernst A. Heinz") (**1999**). *Endgame Databases and Efficient Index Schemes for Chess.* [ICCA Journal, Vol. 22, No. 1](ICGA_Journal#22_1 "ICGA Journal"), [ps](http://people.csail.mit.edu/heinz/ps/edb_index.ps.gz)
1. <a id="cite-ref-3" href="#cite-note-3">↑</a> [DTR is no good!](http://kirill-kryukov.com/chess/discussion-board/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=3934) by [Harm Geert Muller](Harm_Geert_Muller "Harm Geert Muller"), [CCRL Forum](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), September 24, 2008
1. <a id="cite-ref-4" href="#cite-note-4">↑</a> [Subject: KRRNKRR win in 290: a new record](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=456178) by [Marc Bourzutschky](Marc_Bourzutschky "Marc Bourzutschky") from [CCC](CCC "CCC"), October 16, 2005
1. <a id="cite-ref-5" href="#cite-note-5">↑</a> [Chess endgame from Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chess_endgame)
1. <a id="cite-ref-6" href="#cite-note-6">↑</a> [311. 31 March 2006: White plays and wins in 330 moves](http://www.xs4all.nl/~timkr/chess2/diary_16.htm) by [Tim Krabbé](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tim_Krabb%C3%A9)
1. <a id="cite-ref-7" href="#cite-note-7">↑</a> [OPEN CHESS DIARY 316. 26 May 2006: A 517-move win](http://www.xs4all.nl/~timkr/chess2/diary_16.htm) by [Tim Krabbé](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tim_Krabb%C3%A9)
1. <a id="cite-ref-8" href="#cite-note-8">↑</a> [Endgame tablebase from Wikipedia - Background](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endgame_tablebase#Background)
1. <a id="cite-ref-9" href="#cite-note-9">↑</a> [Lomonosov Endgame Tablebases](http://chessok.com/?page_id=27966) - [ChessOK](ChessOK "ChessOK")
1. <a id="cite-ref-10" href="#cite-note-10">↑</a> [Re: 7-men Syzygy attempt](http://talkchess.com/forum3/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=66797&start=472) by [Bojun Guo](Bojun_Guo "Bojun Guo"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), August 19, 2018
1. <a id="cite-ref-11" href="#cite-note-11">↑</a> [Subject: brute-force vs. intuition in math & chess](http://www.mathematik.uni-bielefeld.de/%7Esillke/NEWS/brute-force) by [Bill Dubuque](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macsyma), August 1996
1. <a id="cite-ref-12" href="#cite-note-12">↑</a> [Jesper Torp Kristensen](Jesper_Torp_Kristensen "Jesper Torp Kristensen") (**2005**). *[Generation and compression of endgame tables in chess with fast random access using OBDDs](https://issuu.com/jespertk/docs/master_thesis)*. Master thesis, supervisor [Peter Bro Miltersen](Mathematician#Miltersen "Mathematician"), [Aarhus University](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aarhus_University)
1. <a id="cite-ref-13" href="#cite-note-13">↑</a> [Knowledge discovery from Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knowledge_discovery)
1. <a id="cite-ref-14" href="#cite-note-14">↑</a> [Chris Wirth's endgame tablebases](http://kirill-kryukov.com/chess/discussion-board/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=2923) by [Denis P. Mendoza](Denis_Mendoza "Denis Mendoza"), [CCRL Endgame Tablebases](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), December 13, 2007 » [Chessterfield](Chessterfield "Chessterfield")
1. <a id="cite-ref-15" href="#cite-note-15">↑</a> [Kasparov versus the World from Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kasparov_versus_the_World)
1. <a id="cite-ref-16" href="#cite-note-16">↑</a> [Generating egtbs ICGAJ](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=200335) by [Tony Werten](Tony_van_Roon-Werten "Tony van Roon-Werten"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), December 04, 2001, with reference to [Computing endgames with few men](http://www.abc.se/~m10051/eg.txt) by [Urban Koistinen](Urban_Koistinen "Urban Koistinen")
1. <a id="cite-ref-17" href="#cite-note-17">↑</a> [Wu / Beal retrograde analisys algorithm](http://www.open-aurec.com/wbforum/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=6302&p=29956) by [Alvaro Jose Povoa Cardoso](Alvaro_Cardoso "Alvaro Cardoso"), [Winboard Forum](Computer_Chess_Forums "Computer Chess Forums"), March 10, 2007
1. <a id="cite-ref-18" href="#cite-note-18">↑</a> [OBDD - Ordered Binary Decision Diagram from Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_decision_diagram)
1. <a id="cite-ref-19" href="#cite-note-19">↑</a> [Plakoto from Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plakoto)
1. <a id="cite-ref-20" href="#cite-note-20">↑</a> [Endgame tablebases with the fifty-move rule](http://galen.metapath.org/egtb50/) by [Galen Huntington](index.php?title=Galen_Huntington&action=edit&redlink=1 "Galen Huntington (page does not exist)")
1. <a id="cite-ref-21" href="#cite-note-21">↑</a> [tablebase compression / academic integrity](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=60222) by [Ronald de Man](Ronald_de_Man "Ronald de Man"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), May 19, 2016
1. <a id="cite-ref-22" href="#cite-note-22">↑</a> [Computing endgames with few men](http://www.abc.se/~m10051/eg.txt) by [Urban Koistinen](Urban_Koistinen "Urban Koistinen")
1. <a id="cite-ref-23" href="#cite-note-23">↑</a> [Ren Wu](Ren_Wu "Ren Wu"), [Don Beal](Don_Beal "Don Beal") (**2001**). *Fast, Memory-efficient Retrograde Algorithms*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 24, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#24_3 "ICGA Journal")
1. <a id="cite-ref-24" href="#cite-note-24">↑</a> [Computing endgames with few men](http://www.abc.se/~m10051/eg.txt) by [Urban Koistinen](Urban_Koistinen "Urban Koistinen")
1. <a id="cite-ref-25" href="#cite-note-25">↑</a> [Easy mate](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=315666) by [Frank Phillips](Frank_Phillips "Frank Phillips"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), September 13, 2003 » [Checkmate](Checkmate "Checkmate")
1. <a id="cite-ref-26" href="#cite-note-26">↑</a> [A018214 - OEIS | Alkane (or paraffin) numbers](http://oeis.org/A018214)
1. <a id="cite-ref-27" href="#cite-note-27">↑</a> [Lomonosov Endgame Tablebases](http://chessok.com/?page_id=27966) - [ChessOK](ChessOK "ChessOK")
1. <a id="cite-ref-28" href="#cite-note-28">↑</a> [kervinck/pfkpk · GitHub](https://github.com/kervinck/pfkpk)
1. <a id="cite-ref-29" href="#cite-note-29">↑</a> [io_uring.pdf](https://kernel.dk/io_uring.pdf?source=techstories.org)
1. <a id="cite-ref-30" href="#cite-note-30">↑</a> [Gaviota tablebases, probing code v4 (UPDATE)](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=38372) by [Miguel A. Ballicora](Miguel_A._Ballicora "Miguel A. Ballicora"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), March 11, 2011
1. <a id="cite-ref-31" href="#cite-note-31">↑</a> [EGTB: Better algorithm](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=162252) by [Urban Koistinen](Urban_Koistinen "Urban Koistinen"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), April 07, 2001
1. <a id="cite-ref-32" href="#cite-note-32">↑</a> [Generating egtbs ICGAJ](https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=200335) by [Tony Werten](Tony_van_Roon-Werten "Tony van Roon-Werten"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), December 04, 2001
1. <a id="cite-ref-33" href="#cite-note-33">↑</a> [Ren Wu](Ren_Wu "Ren Wu"), [Don Beal](Don_Beal "Don Beal") (**2001**). *Fast, Memory-efficient Retrograde Algorithms*. [ICGA Journal, Vol. 24, No. 3](ICGA_Journal#24_3 "ICGA Journal")
1. <a id="cite-ref-34" href="#cite-note-34">↑</a> [New 6-piece tablebases](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=47681) by [Ronald de Man](Ronald_de_Man "Ronald de Man"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), April 01, 2013
1. <a id="cite-ref-35" href="#cite-note-35">↑</a> [Scorpio 6men EGBB Now available](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=50894) by [Joshua Shriver](index.php?title=Joshua_Shriver&action=edit&redlink=1 "Joshua Shriver (page does not exist)"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), January 14, 2014
1. <a id="cite-ref-36" href="#cite-note-36">↑</a> [Yet another KPK endgame table generator: pfkpk](http://www.talkchess.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=57517) by [Marcel van Kervinck](Marcel_van_Kervinck "Marcel van Kervinck"), [CCC](CCC "CCC"), September 05, 2015

**[Up one level](Knowledge "Knowledge")**

